












"A Nobel Prize in medicine."
"A slip of the lip can sink a ship!" yelled Dwayne.
"A what?" he said.
"A whole galaxy going up like a celluloid collar," said Trout.
"About fifteen years," said Trout. "Our salesmen say you can easily afford to have the
"About the same," said Kilgore Trout.
"All right," said Dwayne.
"All the same," he insisted, "you've got buddies you see after work. You have a few
"All you had to do was explain," said Bonnie MacMahon. "I understand now."
"All you robots want to know why my wife ate Drano?" Dwayne asked his
"Aloha," he said.
"Aloha," she said.
"Always knew they would. Get a load of this." And then he read the letter. There was no
"Americans are always afraid of coming home," said Karabekian, "with good reason,
"And please note," he went on, "that when I gave you that priceless piece of
"And the unloading process was sloppy, so there were pieces of books and
"And then Earthlings discovered tools. Suddenly agreeing with friends could be a
"Any kids?"
"Any time now," he would say. "And high time, too."
"Anyway, they moved into an empty shack that night," Dwayne's stepfather went on.
"Anyway," she said, "it certainly is an honor to have you visit us, and those aren't the
"Are there any questions you'd like to ask?"
"Are—are you—from the— the Arts Festival?" he said. His eyes rolled and rolled.
"Around Cohoes," said Trout. "I think those were about the only really happy people I
"As a matter of fact, I can," said Beatrice. "That's an enchanting detail."
"As good as can be expected," said Dwayne. "Anything special bothering you?"
"Aye-eeeeem, aye-eeeeem," he said to himself— internally. The rhythm of the chant
"Back where I come from," said Trout, "that means you're going to steal a mirror. We
"Beaver!"
"Bill," said Trout tentatively, "some' teen-ager named Rosewater got me this job. His
"Bon voyage? I said. I disappeared.
"But why should he single out me?" Harry wanted to know. He was right: Dwayne
"Buzzed," said Dwayne. This was his echolalia again.
"Cocktail lounge," said Harold Newcomb Wilbur.
"Dear Mr. Trout:" it said, "It is a pleasure and an honor to have such a distinguished
"Dear Sir, poor sir, brave sir:" he read, "You are an experiment by the Creator of the
"Demain nous aliens passer la soiree au cinema," said the tape, and Don tried to say
"Do you have a gun?" he said.
"Doesn't it look like a leak to you?" said Trout.
"Doesn't that get tiresome," said Karabeldan. "Or maybe that's why people found
"Don't hang up. The cops got me down at City Jail. They only let me have one call, so
"Don't worry about it," said Trout.
"Don't worry about it," said Trout.
"Dwayne," he said.
"Earthlings went on being friendly, when they should have been thinking instead. And
"Everybody home now," he said later on, when the traffic thinned out. Now the sun was
"Everything you're not supposed to do to a car, they did to a car," Dwayne said to
"Excuse me for calling you by name, Mr. Hoover, but I can't help knowing who you
"Feel free to ask anything you want—about the past, about the future," I said.
"For all I know, they may not even have been Earth-lings,'' said Trout. 'For all I know,
"Fuck the reindeer," said Grace. Then she added, "No, the reindeer cannot hear."
"Gilgongo!"
"Gilgongo!" was about a planet which was unpleasant because there was too much
"Give me the message," cried Dwayne. He tottered up from his own banquette,
"Good morning, sir," said the young man to Dwayne. He was dismayingly innocent.
"Good morning," said Dwayne. He said it softly, so his voice wouldn't carry very far,
"Good night, Grandfather," said the manager pointedly.
"Good point," said Trout.
"Hal-?"
"Hard times," said Trout.
"Harry LeSabre was right," said Francine. She was backed up against the cement
"Harry," said Dwayne. "I have some news for you: modern science has given us a
"He also programmed robots to write books and magazines and newspapers for you,
"How could you possibly have heard of me?" said Trout dazedly.
"How do you know who I am?" said Kilgore Trout. Nobody had ever known who he
"How would you like it if he insulted your clothes?" said Harry. This is what Dwayne
"How's it going, fella?" Governor Rockefeller asked him.
"How's my old buddy?" and so on.
"How's my old combat buddy today?" he said to Dwayne. 1
"Huh," he said. It was a noncommittal sound.
"I am from the Everything Festival," I replied.
"I can tell fortunes," I said. "You want your fortune told?"
"I can't sleep," said Dwayne, "until I get some answers."
"I didn't think there was anything to explain," said Carlo Maritime, the builder,
"I don't even know what you think I asked for," said Francine.
"I don't know any," said Bonnie.
"I don't know, and I would hate to find out," said Karabekian.
"I don't know," said Dwayne. "Somebody from Mars, maybe."
"I don't know," said Harry from his humid tent.
"I don't mind that you have the name of a Buick, Harry, when you're supposed to be
"I don't want a crazy teen-ager," said Dwayne. "I want you."
"I don't want to hear the kinds of things doctors say," said Dwayne. "I want to talk to
"I don't wonder you're tired and nervous," Francine went on. "If I was a man, I'd be
"I felt so tense," said Dwayne.
"I have just heard from this cocktail waitress here, this vertical band of light, a story
"I hope you enjoy it," said the cashier to Trout. He meant that he hoped Trout would
"I just try to cheer people up," said Bonnie. "If that's a crime, I never heard about it till
"I kept thinking," she told a newspaper reporter from her hospital bed, "'He is finally
"I know him the way a combat soldier knows his buddy," said Harry. "We used to put
"I know," I said.
"I know," I said.
"I know," said Francine. "Are you better now?"
"I know," said Milo. "We have discovered you, and we hope you will discover us. No
"I like you so much, and I am such a big shot in the Universe, that I will make your three
"I love you so much," said Francine. She corrected herself. "I know I promised not to
"I make my own hours, and I pick the products I sell. The products don't sell me," he
"I never heard that before," said the driver. He repeated the word: "Leaks." He
"I never saw a Rosewater," he said, "but Rosewater always won. I walked on
"I now give you my word of honor," he went on, "that the picture your city owns
"I promise," she said.
"I realized," said Trout, "that God wasn't any conservationist, so for anybody else to
"I saw that sign," said Dwayne, "and I couldn't help wondering if that was what God
"I say it every time I give anybody a martini," said Bonnie.
"I see," said Trout.
"I thank those lusts for being so ridiculous, for they taught us that it was possible for a
"I want you to listen to me while I whistle the song of the Nightingale," he said. He
"I want you to walk out of here with me this very moment," he said, "and come with
"I was arrested for speeding down there. They had a speed trap, where you all of a
"I was born in Bermuda," said Trout.
"I will" said Dwayne. This was a bad mistake.
"I won't know myself until I find out whether life is serious or not," said Trout. "It's
"I work alone," said Trout.
"I would remember that he was the best employer in town," said Francine. This was
"I'll get a nurse!" said Trout. Any human being would have said exactly the same
"I'm busy."
"I'm so confused," he said.
"I've also arranged for you to have a reputable publisher from now on. No more
"I've got to talk to somebody," said Dwayne.
"I've often wondered where the asshole was," said
"I've tried everything else," said Dwayne. He brightened. He nodded. "You're right!
"If I owned what he owns, I'd sing, too," the waiter replied.
"If I were in your spot, I would certainly have lots of questions," I said.
"If it isn't in Midland City," said the driver, "it's in Libertyville, Georgia. You ever see
"If you're going to ask me for presents," said Dwayne, "just do me a favor—and don't
"If you're in aluminum storm windows," the driver said to Trout, "you must be in
"In getting ready for the Midland City Renaissance," said Milo, "I made it my business
"In the long run, he's committing suicide," said the driver. "Seems like the only kind of
"Is the food all right?" she said.
"Is this it? Is this it?" said Dwayne, snatching up Trout's novel, Now It Can Be Told.
"It fills such a need, this machine, and it's so easy to operate."
"It takes all kinds," said Dwayne.
"It would depend on how determined you were," said Trout.
"It's a full life and a merry one," said Kilgore Trout.
"It's all like an ocean!" cried Dostoevski. I say it's all like cellophane.
"It's easy to make $100 a week in your spare time by showing comfortable, latest
"It's what everybody else gets," she said. "We didn't do anything special for you."
"Just forget about Moby Dick and Jesse James and the slaves and all that," said
"Just one," said Trout. "A weak little kid could do it without any help."
"Kilgore, God damn it—" the driver said, "if I was to have my rig break down in
"Like who?" said Francine.
"Listen, Harry," said Dwayne, and his expression was mean, "Hawaiian Week is
"Listen," said Grace, "we're the only white people hi Midland City with any kind of sex
"Listen—I'm serious," said Grace to Harry. "This is the asshole of the Universe. Let's
"Look up, Mr. Trout," I said, and I waited patiently. "Kilgore-?"
"Looks like Gary Cooper, don't he?" said the truck driver of the hitchhiking man.
"Lots worse things we could be hauling than olives." "Right," said Trout. He had
"Maybe I'm going crazy, too," said Vernon. "Christ, I go home and I talk for hours to
"Maybe it was time!" said Dwayne. "I never felt better in my life!" And so on.
"Maybe we should have adopted one," said Harry, 'Taut it's too late now. And the old
"Mean," said Dwayne.
"Midland City is the asshole of the Universe," said the driver.
"Mr. Secretary-General, it is the past which scares the bejesus out of me."
"Mr. Trout," I said, "I am a novelist, and I created you for use in my books."
"Mr. Trout-Kilgore-" I said, "I hold in my hand a symbol of wholeness and harmony
"My brother is even worse," the driver went on. "He works in a factory that makes
"My company sells it," said Trout, "and I've seen a lot of it. I've never actually worked
"My eyes are open," said Milo warmly, "and I see exactly what I expect to see. I see a
"My sister is sick," said Trout.
"Nice day."
"No, no," said Elgin Washington, waving his hands in dreamy protest. "I'm dying slow.
"No," I said. And I shattered his power to doubt me. I transported him to the Taj
"No," said Harry.
"No," said the driver.
"No," said the driver. "Where did you say you were from?"
"No," said Trout.
"No," said Trout. "Are you?"
"Nobody ever knew who I was before," he said.
"Not right now," she said. She went back to the bar, and she and the bartender had
"Of course," said Karabekian, who had never heard of Shepherdstown. "What would
"Oh come now," said Karabekian. "Every human being in this room must be worth a
"Oh, God," said the man, "you never get out of 'em-even when you sleep. I dream
"Oh," she said.
"Oh? said Dwayne.
"On Judgment Day," said Francine, "when they ask me what bad things I did down
"One night—" Dwayne's stepfather said, "a Nigger family got off a boxcar in
"One small step for man, one great leap for mankind.''
"One," said Trout. Somewhere in the past, tumbling among all the wives and stories
"Only God knows that," said Francine.
"Open your eyes!" said Trout bitterly. "Do I look like a dancer, a singer, a man of
"Open your eyes!" said Trout. "Would a man nourished by beauty look like this? You
"Our company began as The Robo-Magic Corporation of America in 1934. It had
"Our names are so close," said the young man, "it's the good Lord telling us both
"Over at Shepherdstown, though," he went on, "the white people got smart quick.
"Pardon me?" he said.
"Pardon me?" he said.
"Perhaps you haven't noticed, Harry, but the Pontiac has now become a glamorous,
"Perma-Stone looks a lot richer, and I suppose it lasts a lot longer, too," said the
"Probably because he felt that you were man enough and friend enough to put up
"She needs rest, Vern," said Dwayne.
"Since that night, which was a long time ago now," his stepfather said, "there ain't
"Sir—I have read your ads in the newspapers with great interest, and I have found
"So now we can build an unselfish society by devoting to unselfishness the frenzy we
"So you want me to open a Nigger joint?" said Dwayne. And so on. So Francine now
"Some people say there is no such thing as progress. The fact that human beings are
"Some persons seem to like you, and others seem to hate you, and you must wonder
"Something bad is happening to the cave, I think," she told him.
"Sounds good to me," said Dwayne. He meant it. Almost all the messages which
"Sun goin' down," said Wayne Hoobler. He had no clues as to where to go next. He
"Takes all kinds of people to make up a world," said Trout.
"Tell me what life is all about," Dwayne begged her fragrant bosom.
"Texas."
"Thank God you're here!"
"That makes two of us," said Dwayne.
"That was the last story I ever read," said the driver. "My God—that must be all of
"That's all right, that's all right," Dwayne assured Wayne. He was being a very good
"That's what it's for," said Francine. "Use it!"
"That's what you said when you brought me my first martini," said Karabekian.
"The big show is inside my head," I said.
"The Bulbul of Malaysia," she would say, for instance, and then she would imitate that
"The Creator of the Universe would now like to apologize not only for the capricious,
"The ideas Earthlings held didn't matter for hundreds of thousands of years, since
"The main industry there was pulping up old newspapers and magazines and books,
"The message?" he said, digging in his chin, digging in his chin.
"The more details the better," said Karabekian. "Thank God for novelists. Thank God
"The Morepark Owl of New Zealand," she would say, and then she would imitate that
"The painting did not exist until I made it," Karabekian went on. "Now that it does
"The reindeer's asleep—or reading the Black Panther Digest," she said.
"The what?" he said.
"Them bubbles is halfway up to the Cathedral now," said Lyle. "The way they're
"Then you're going to have to be patient," said Francine. She went back to the
"Then your father was programmed to stomp out of the house and slam the door.
"There isn't anything by me or about me anywhere," protested Trout.
"There were two monsters sharing this planet with us when I was a boy, however,
"There you are," said Dwayne, and his eyes crinkled in bittersweet amusement. He
"There's a Nobel Prize in your future."
"There's another one," he said, indicating a mailbox which looked like this:
"These are secrets I will carry to my grave."
"They don't want anything but smilers out there," Trout said to his parakeet.
"They even had a saying about the futility of ideas: 'If wishes were horses, beggars
"They got a fire going in the stove and all. So a mob went down there at midnight. They
"They let loose a stink you wouldn't believe," said Lyle. He said it smelled like
"They say I killed my baby."
"They used to have good reason," said Beatrice, "but not anymore. The past has
"They're all like here. They're all the same," said Dwayne.
"This is Ned Lingamon."
"This would be a very good location for a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken
"Three times," said Trout. It was true. Not only that, but each of his wives had been
"Thrilling words," said Trout. He looked over his shoulder, perceived that they were
"Time to do the Nigger work," she said.
"Tippy-Tippy-Tin," and "Hold Tight," and "Blue Moon," and so on. Dwayne had never
"Um," said Trout.
"Um," said Trout. Up ahead was a white man hitchhiking with his pregnant wife and
"Unclean," said Dwayne.
"Unhappy failures need not apply." But his mind wouldn't leave it alone at that. He got
"Unless you want to count the story about the Flood," said Trout.
"Urn," he said.
"Urn," he said.
"Urn," said Trout.
"Urn," said Trout.
"Vern's wife thinks Vern is trying to turn her brains into plutonium," said Dwayne.
"We all are," she said. She cradled his head against her breasts.
"We are so ready for a Renaissance, Mr. Trout! You will be our Leonardo!"
"We call it The Hundred-Nigger Machine," said the workman. This had reference to a
"We could go to some other city," said Francine.
"We were given a tour of all the research facilities," he said. The thing that impressed
"We're a Pontiac family," they'd say.
"Well—" said Bonnie, and she thought she had what was maybe a really good story
"What do you call it?" said Dwayne, relieved to find his echolalia was subsiding.
"What favor?" said Trout uneasily. He stiffened at the mention of an unspecified
"What kind of a man would turn his daughter into an outboard motor?" he said to
"What they got you in for?"
"What was the Star of Bethlehem?" said the driver.
"What's plutonium?" said Harry, and so on. They rambled along, and Harry made up
"Where am I?" said Dwayne.
"Whoa! I'm a friend!" I said. He shuffled to a stop, leaned in panting exhaustion
"Why did he name his company Pyramid?" asked Trout. "I mean—this thing can go a
"Why me?"
"Why would anybody in his right mind go to Midland City?" the driver wanted to know.
"Why would anybody in the business of highspeed transportation name his business
"Why would anybody name a fire extinguisher Excelsior?" Trout asked the driver.
"Woe-ee? Woe-eye? Woy?"
"Wonderful," said Karabekian. He turned to Beatrice. *Tm sure you can use that
"Years ago," Dwayne's stepfather told Dwayne when Dwayne was ten, "Niggers was
"Yes, he does," said Trout. Gary Cooper was a movie star.
"Yes," said Trout. He had forgotten the driver's name a hundred times. Every time
"Yes." He was lying on his back. His ankles were crossed. His hands were folded
"Yes?"
"Yes?" she said.
"Yes—that's it," croaked Trout. To his tremendous relief, Dwayne removed his chin
"You a veteran?" said the driver.
"You and me, Sparky," said Dwayne. And so on. He sure loved that dog.
"You are pooped and demoralized," read Dwayne. "Why wouldn't you be? Of course
"You are the only one I am telling. For the others, tonight will be a night like any other
"You can talk to Mommy, if you want," said Francine. She meant that she was
"you can watch the animals in the zoo."
"You don't think much of Mary Alice Miller?" she said. "Well, we don't think much of
"You get what you pay for," said Kilgore Trout.
"You glad to be out of 'em?" said Trout.
"You got to do me a favor," said Washington. He had no idea what favor to ask. It
"You had to be you," said Milo.
"You have no use for truth?" said Beatrice.
"You have this idea that every driver you see is fucking up a storm from coast to coast,
"You know what truth is?" said Karabekian. "It's some crazy thing my neighbor
"You ought to have some crazy young teen-ager, who can rush off whenever you
"You walk down the same streets every day," the driver told him. "You know a lot of
"You want to go to a doctor?" said Francine.
"You want to know how truck drivers make out with women, right?" the driver said.
"You're afraid you'll kill yourself the way your mother did," I said.
"You're the only friend I got left."
"You're tired," she said. "Why wouldn't you be tired? You work so hard. I feel sorry for
"You," said Dwayne.
"Your mother was programmed to bawl out your father for being a defective moneymaking
"Your parents were fighting machines and self-pitying machines," said the book.
"Your second wish is about to come true," said Trout, and he again did something which
1924. George Hickman Bannister had the largest tombstone in Calvary Cemetery, a
1954, when Lyle got in a fight over a woman at the Roller Derby. After that, Lyle was the
1962 Cadillac limousine. It had belonged to the Maritime Brothers Construction
A beaver was actually a large rodent. It loved water, so it built dams. It looked like
a big balloon full of helium to every man, woman and child who didn't own property.
A black bus boy and a black waiter discussed this singing. "Listen at him sing," said
a Bloody Mary with Wolfschmidt's."
A body bag was a large plastic envelope for a freshly killed American soldier. It was a
A check of his fingerprints and his wonderful dental work proved that he was who he
A chicken was a flightless bird which looked like this:
a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise. He gave her full credit for
a crime to smile during working hours, Harry, and I have the personal promise of the
A CRY FOR HELP
a dip one day, for instance, The Man yelled this: "Cheese!"
a few, too, who had been energetic and punctual, and he winked at Wayne, and he said
a fictitious mountain climber in a famous poem kept yelling as he disappeared into a
a flamingo sandblasted on the glass of the bathtub enclosure. It looked like this:
a hole in her. And so on.
a hundred times a minute for days, cooled dashboard clocks to within a few degrees of
a hunter named Dudley Farrow shot and killed her before she got there. Farrow skinned
A lamb was a young animal which was legendary for sleeping well on the planet
a lamb.
A mother is much more useful.
a Nightingale, for instance, he or she would say this first: "What adds peculiar beauty to
a part of the surface people had to stick to.
a problem for himself just to keep the conversation lively. He said he was sad sometimes
a rabbit who lived like all the other wild rabbits, but who was as intelligent as Albert
a room. As queer as the hour was, there was a man ahead of him, and a black one at
a rope of sheets taken from a reeking hamper. I have come to Midland City to have
a second.
a skin diver in the depths of his mind. The depths were seldom used.
A small hand mirror floated by. It was a leak with a mother-of-pearl handle and frame.
a soft, weak metal, an element, which had somehow been declared the most desirable
A stork was a large European bird, about half the size of a Bermuda Ern. Children who
a transvestite beauty contest or done what a lot of transvestites in Midland City did,
A truck sizzled by on the Interstate, seemed to cry out in pain to Wayne, because he
a week in take-home pay, had lost her husband, Robert Pefko, in a war in Viet Nam. He
a white man anymore, even though he was of pure English stock. As he grew older and
a woman who became his wife.
a worse one.
abbreviation of "Blast Interval Normalization Computer."
Abe Cohen, the jeweler, said to Karabekian, "If artists would explain more, people
abominably, and with such abominable results: They were doing their best to live like
about a device in the basement of the prison, which looked like this:
About a week later, the driver would tell his wife that mirrors were called leaks in
about American history, and she kept her poor greyhound, who was named Lancer, in a
about coming home after all these years," she said to Karabekian.
about doing work like that. My own mother was that way, too, and so was my sister,
about Dwayne.
about her husband and an idiot who was about to be executed at Shepherdstown. Very
about him was not absolutely splendid automatically turned him into a useless, sulky
about human beings."
about life. Every person would be exactly as important as any other. All facts would also
about the distribution of wealth, about school, about everything.
about the relationship between wide-open beavers and the sales of books?"
about the terrible danger they were in. The head of the house brained Zog with a
about the time when he used to talk about his "best friends." He guessed people
about to become a part of Philadelphia now. A sign at the foot of the bridge said this:
about to club her to death. It was a scary and pitiful thing to see.
about you," he said, "I wrote to Eliot Rosewater, the man who said we had to bring you
above street level. His entire life was devoted to unloading his excrement at the proper
absolute zero, and so on.
absolutely humorless obedience, when he was only ten years old. Here is why: He told
Academy, for instance, the student body was unanimous in electing him Cadet Colonel,
accepted for publication. It had been accepted years ago, apparently, for the date on
accidents and cancer," he said, and so on.
achieve a desired pattern of explosions on the planet below. "BLINC" was an
acres of land.
activated the BLINC System, which then released the bombs in such a way as to
actually fluorescent.
Actually, the sea pirates who had the most to do with the creation of the new
Adam's apples. And then the father put the cat and dog on the table, so they could take
admit that he was the father of the book.
adopted and educated there.
adopted—by a couple who had moved to Midland City from West Virginia in order to
Adult Correctional Institution for telling a joke!"
advanced with quick combinations of intended kicks, slaps, and punches. And Wayne
afford billboard advertising during the Great Depression, so the Robo-Magic sales
afford salesmen of their own.
Africa crashed into North America. And the coal in the state was formed from forests
African dodger now. He became cunning, concealed his violent intentions with apparent
Africans, Indians and white men.
after a dog my brother owns, who has to fight all the time, because he can't wag his tail.
After a while, the actors couldn't eat any more. They were so stuffed that they were
After all the Erns were dead, it was discovered what had killed them. It was a fungus,
After all, I had created both Dwayne and Trout, and now Trout was about to drive
after all. This was a common phenomenon. A lot of couples seemed to be programmed
after sexual intercourse. The snuffles all had meanings which were bland: "That's all
after slavery was eliminated, because it was so embarrassing, they and their
After that, Francine followed Robert to Midland City, where Robert oversaw the
after the murder of Christ, were considered valid by Catholics even in Dwayne Hoover's
After they got well again, they manufactured a cheap and durable automobile which
again and again, and asked the children to memorize it with pride and joy:
again, came up again, and stood in a brand new dimple.
again, until the Bright Angel of Death stops their mouths with ashes."
again.
again. "Not a cough in a carload!" he yelled.
again. Dwayne and Francine tried to remember the most recent electrocution anywhere
again. From a distance, these sheets, which never needed painting, looked like freshly
again. My view of the lights of the County Hospital was garbled by beads of water. I
again. The people he had injured so unjustly would sue him so vengefully that he would
against a fence surrounding an appliance warehouse belonging to the General Electric
age of twenty-five—after a botched abortion at the Ramada Inn down in Green County,
ago, and it hadn't given him a speck of trouble in all that tune. "I'll be damned," said
agony and ecstasy that there was to be an arts festival in Midland City. I escaped down
agony as quick as a thunderclap.
ahead.
air. He bloodied his shins and laughed about it when he scrambled up rocks to get out
Airport— and then the familiar farmlands beyond.
alike—as a way of demonstrating attentiveness, gullibility, respect, and voluntary
All around him were what other people called mirrors, which he called leaks. The
All around Midland City, Hoobler was a common Nigger name.
all been drained out of it by the Interstate and by the Robert F. Kennedy Inner Belt
All he was getting, the cashier thought, was pictures of women in their underpants.
all messages are sent. It is all that is alive in any of us—in a mouse, in a deer, in a
All over the State, nailed to trees and fence posts, were arrow-shaped signs, which
all the rest of us went about our business, Earthling scientists were monotonously
All they had to do in order to have ordinary lives, it turned out, was to consume less
All this was stored away in Dwayne's memory, in case he should need it later on. He
allotted, but it's too late to bugger around with that. Let it stand, let it stand!
also had the television on. A group of scientists was on television, saying that the theory
also impossible to locate in the bodies of wounded enemies by means of x-ray
also people who had known the person in the older days hidden around. They would
also, and make a lot of noise.
Also: he wasn't merely polishing the car—he was burnishing it.
although the air was still.
aluminum propellers on a wire overhead would be turned by a lazy breeze, and Wayne
aluminum siding went on. My question to you, and you can give me an honest answer,
aluminum siding, too." All over the country, the two businesses went hand-in-hand.
always asking that as they were loaded into ambulances after accidents of various
am making a gift to each of you of one share in the company which I founded, the
am suddenly transformed by what I have done so far. This is why I had gone to Midland
am when I write what I am seemingly programmed to write.
America was trying to make people stop being communists by dropping things on them
American Novel in the Age of McLuhan." He wished to say at that symposium, "I don't
American paradise. I sure miss Phoebe Hurty.
Americans had to hearing a person sneeze.
amok, the local paper ran a deeply sympathetic editorial about it, begging people to
amok.
among Dwayne's used cars again, was fit to take his place in society.
among the trees and underbrush, "Ideas or the lack of them can cause disease!"
an ambulance with Kilgore Trout.
An angel-faced white child, with flaxen hair, stood by the brook. She waved up at
An apple was a popular fruit which looked like this:
an earlier version of this book.
an ecstatic old Chinaman.
an employee came near, Wayne would wander off to the garbage and trash area behind
an equilateral triangle about twelve feet on a side.
an hour, and then we went back in. The paint was blistered on Moby Dick. He ain't even
an hour, ten feet behind them and close to the curb.
an idea which he found very tangy: "But maybe an unhappy failure is exactly what they
an Indaro. He was a Nigerian. His name was Cyprian Ukwende. He felt no kinship with
an invitation to be a speaker at an arts festival in the American Middle West.
an irreproachable container for a human being.
an object was called a conversation piece.
an out-of-court settlement for his injuries, Dwayne's stepfather was given what he called
an unwavering band of light.
and a grass skirt and all that, he could not believe it. So he made himself not see it. He
and a new toothbrush. Trout hadn't owned a toothbrush for years.
and a quarter inches—and so on. The ads invited the readers to discover whether they
And all music is.
and all that, were likely to ask him, "All right, boy—how many years you spend in
And all the black people who worked for her thought her act was the funniest thing
and beautiful and lovable and suddenly free.
And before Fred's mother and father came to the United States after the First World
And Bonnie MacMahon told Beatrice and Karabekian that Mary Alice's father, who
And Bunny would bring new medals with him every time he came home for vacation.
and busy. Actually, though, it was old junk hooked up every which way,
and conscience
and creative person give his precious time to Midland City's first Festival of the Arts. It is
And Dwayne read on about himself and the Creator of the Universe, to wit:
And Dwayne tried to reciprocate in little ways. For instance, he had been reading
And Dwayne wandered over to admire a tremendous earth-moving machine which
and Dwayne. He was still in the truck named Pyramid. It was crossing a bridge named
and ears
And Eddie Key, because he knew so much by heart, was able to have deep,
and Eliot Rosewater, his only fan. He still thought Eliot Rosewater was a teenager.
and empty mind: "Pure tuna fish!"
and even high quality color motion pictures of wide-open beavers were going begging in
and getting smashed on yeast excrement.
and glucocorticoids.
and gratings for their windows, to keep out The Pluto Gang. They stopped going to
and he came north and started the farm. Then he went back and bought his mother and
And he didn't have any relatives in town anymore. There weren't any Bannisters in
And he wanted the exhibit to show, too, how machines evolved just as animals did,
And he went on staring at me, even though I wanted to stop him now. Here was the
And here Dwayne did something extraordinarily unnatural. He did it because I wanted
And here's how much of the planet Kilgore Trout owned in those days: doodleysquat.
and his Pontiac agency, he discovered that someone had turned the asphalt into a sort
and his trucks after buildings which haven't moved an eighth of an inch since Christ was
and I celebrate their extinction today. They were determined to kill us, or at least to
And I had Wayne Hoobler, the black ex-convict, stand bleakly among the garbage
And I sat there in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn, watching Dwayne
And I think now, as my fiftieth birthday draws near, about the American novelist
and in cartoons and so on, for children to see. A typical one might look like this:
and insulted that they thought they might be in the wrong country, or even on the wrong
And it is important to understand at this point that Wayne had never seen an airport
and it looked like a moon.
and juicy. Most of all, we hunger for symbols which have not been
And Kazak did his best to kill anybody who came too close to the fence which
And Kilgore Trout and Dwayne Hoover met in Midland City, which was Dwayne's
and Kilgore Trout belonged to was the only one with a national anthem which was
and Kyle. It was the sole source of income for Lyle and Kyle, who lived in identical yellow
and laces and socks were impregnated with the plastic material, which he had picked
and laugh and cry. We've tried to survive so long on money and sex and envy and real
and lemon rinds. But he was majestic up there. "Listen—" he said so calmly, "I have
and machinery, and it disciplined other countries by threatening to shoot big rockets at
and magazines.
and making new paper out of 'em," said the driver. "Trucks and trains were bringing in
And my own pre-earthquake condition must be taken into consideration, too, since I
And nearer and nearer the zeppelin came.
And nearer and nearer the zeppelin came.
and nourishment. It is Oriental in its simplicity, but we are Americans, Kilgore, and not
And now I drew a symbol whose meaning Dwayne had known for a few years in
and peace and wars and evil and desperation, of better days coming by and by, of
And Phoebe Hurty was able to believe that the impoliteness she recommended would
and planning and so on. Nobody else knew what pain was. Nobody else had any
and put between two pieces of bread. The finished product looked like this:
and rattlesnakes during church services, to show how much they believed that Jesus
And ready for high school.
And ready for plucking.
and ringed with stools. People could eat and drink from the piano. On the previous
and roll around with Sparky, and he would say things like, "You and me, Spark," and
and screen business, had opportunities to build many lasting friendships in the course
and seven-eighths inches in diameter.
And she was put in a remedial reading class, where they made her read The Good
and shrubs and a high cedar fence.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
and so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
and so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on.
And so on. Symbols can be so beautiful, sometimes.
And so on. Trout grabbed him from behind.
and so was The Creator, according to Kilgore Trout.
and socks like that every day at the hospital, on the feet of children who had played too
and socks on his head, although the water scarcely reached his kneecaps.
And some of the ACTH in my bloodstream reached the outer shell of my adrenal
and some other things.
And somebody squealed on him. The Emperor Diocletian had him shot by archers.
and spiritual continents began to shrug and heave.
and sporting events and from underneath fire escapes and so on. They needed a code
and television and radio shows, and stage shows, and films. They wrote songs for you.
And that routine went on unrevised, even after Dwayne started to go crazy, so Lottie
and that was where Dwayne found them. The book wasn't addressed to Dwayne alone.
and the babies matured in pools of oil drained from adult crankcases.
And the bad chemicals in his head were fed up with secrecy. They were no longer
And The Bannister was the city's leading movie house for many years, until it was
and the finance office and the gift shop and all that, but into a matrix of rooms where
and the folks sure seemed to like whatever was doing the droning," he said.
And The Man would tell him mockingly, "Because I felt like it, you stupid machine."
And the only other person on the property with her as she typed and filed was Wayne
And the peanut butter-eaters on Earth were preparing to conquer the shazzbuttereaters
and the powder would turn to gas. The gas would blow a chunk of lead down a tube and
And the rockets' red glare, the bombs
and the space travelers themselves were only an inch high, and their space ship wasn't
and then aluminum siding which was hollow. The space in the siding was filled with a
And then another lovely scarf swam by. It looked like this:
And then Dwayne took a swing at Wayne. He meant to slap him hard with his open
And then he saw the most unbelievable thing of all: His sales manager, Harry
And then one of the subtler messages on the paper got through to him. It was
And then the cells were stirred into a soupy sea on the virgin planet. They would
And then the pioneering began.
And then Trout saw that a simple fire extinguisher in the Galaxie had this brand
And then Trout, with his wound dressed, would walk out into the unfamiliar city. He
And then your father would drag himself home to become an apologizing machine. And
And then, pretending to be a child by the roadside, he read the message on the side
And then, while he ate them, she would talk dirty about how fresh and full of natural
And there were actually pictures of storks delivering babies on birth announcements
and they stop coming. That's how people are."
And they would drift hither and yon, like balloons filled with some gas slightly heavier
and thirty-feet long. There was another leak on the cigarette machine and yet another
And this book is being written by a meat machine in cooperation with a machine
and thrill his wife or sweetheart with extra inches. They also wanted to sell him a lifelike
and to eat it, too.
And Trout found stairs, but they were the wrong stairs. They led him not to the lobby
And Trout made up a new novel while he sat there. It was about an Earthling
And Trout would reply waggishly, "Where I come from, that means you're about to
and twelve-gauge automatic shotguns for an open season on reindeer, which was
and twenty-four horsepower Cummins Diesel engine, which was turbo-charged, so it
And two young black prostitutes materialized from nowhere. They asked Trout and
and warehouses. The streetlights were widely-spaced and feeble. Parking lots were
and wastefully on a planet so sweet. "We're all Heliogabalus, Bill," he would say. This
And Wayne wanted to remove his eye from the peephole after a few seconds,
And when another Nigger high school was built after the Second World War, it was
And when he sketched a plausible molecule, he indicated points where it would go
and you will respond so grotesquely that there will be talk of putting you in the booby
And, in the midst of the uproar, Elgin Washington said something wheedlingly to
And, two months after Trout received his first fan letter, I had him find in his mailbox
Another ad, which was painted on a billboard by the railroad depot, showed two white
Another force was the fear in these same people that their lives might be ridiculous,
another intelligently. She is on vacation now. I like her a lot.
Another time he yelled, "Wouldn't you really rather drive a Buick?"
another up a passage which led to a big boulder which had been painted white to
another, everybody went on imagining that the person was living up to expectations
answered it, but he kept his eyes on me. I had to think fast about who was on the other
Anthem. Eddie knew he was descended from Key. He could name more than six
Anthony himself sold everything he had when he was young, and he went out into the
any rate, do not fit together nicely, are often useless and ugly, are out of proportion with
anybody anywhere else—until they were murdered for thrills, or until they were frozen to
anybody, since her father was dying at the time.
anymore, but now he saw something else for which there could be no explanation: A
anymore.
anymore. It had adored them once.
anything about books out that way. So when he said I was good, they believed him."
anything about conservation anywhere in the Bible."
anything else he wanted, all prepared by other black men in the kitchen. There was a
anything extra to name it after him.
anything for him, no matter how difficult or disgusting, to think up nice things to do for
anything on Earth. So everybody piled into air-cushion vehicles, and they floated to a
anyway, radiantly: "My name, sir, is Wayne Hoobler."
anyway.
anyway." She would pretend to lock her lips with a key, and then whisper to Bunny,
anywhere. Beatrice Keedsler had been put to sleep with morphine.
appeared in combination with more familiar words and symbols in signs painted on the
appliances of various sorts would eventually do what he called "all the Nigger work of
appreciate Ivanhoe, which was about men in iron suits and the women who loved them.
approached him from the driver's side of the car, I swiveled my feet some, so that my
appropriate to his narrow mission in Midland City, which was to show provincials, who
approximately, since they were such big animals. There was inertia to overcome. It
architect in Indiana. He had designed some dream houses for Hoosier millionaires.
are, with your picture in all your ads and everything. Besides—everybody else who
aristocrats, and they wished to show off their useless education, which consisted of the
armor made out of leather and cloth and plastic.
Army Air Corps during the Second World War, though. One time he got to paint a
around and around. Nobody smiled. They just went around and around."
around her neck and a flower behind one ear. She smiled. This was a war widow with
Around the toilet seat was a band of paper like this, which he would have to remove
articles and books on sexual intercourse recently. There was a sexual revolution going
Arts and Sciences caused a monument to be erected over his ashes. Carved in its
Arts Center, a harvest moon on stilts in a bend of Sugar Creek. It reminded him of how
arts festival before: a representative of all the thousands of artists who devoted their
as a rocket ship. I never saw anything that was less like a pyramid than this truck."
as disposable as paper facial tissues? Because that was the way authors customarily
As Dwayne Hoover's stepfather explained to him one time, "It was embarrassing.
as effusively as Milo Maritime had done, and he had had no experience with
as far as he knew.
As far as Trout knew, this word meant higher in a dead language. It was also a thing
as ferocious as Kazak was not easily cut out of a novel.
As for Dwayne Hoover's dog Sparky, who couldn't wag his tail: Sparky is modeled
As for myself: I had come to the conclusion that there was nothing sacred about
As for myself: I kept a respectful distance between myself and all the violence—even
As for staying at a place where black men stayed, Dwayne was philosophical. He
As for the slaves: these were plaster statues of black men in a chamber fifty feet
As has already been said: Dwayne was a Pontiac dealer who was going insane.
As he backed out of his driveway, he thought it important to explain to his neighbors
As he cowered there, I transported him to the Bermuda of his childhood, had him
As I approached my fiftieth birthday, I had become more and more enraged and
As it happened, the only other person in the lobby at the time was the beautiful young
as it was understood in my day:
as much like the Hawaiian Islands as possible. People who bought new or used cars, or
As rich as he was, he couldn't afford to buy one, so he looked for one to borrow.
As she died, Mary was as alone on the planet as were Dwayne Hoover or Kilgore
as they were concerned.
as though he had been hired to sing for their pleasure. But nobody thought that was
As three unwavering bands of light, we were simple and separate and beautiful. As
as was the case with George Hickman Bannister.
ashamed to have made him tighten up again. He was as rigid as an ironing board. "Oh
Ashtabula, Ohio, where I spent the night before. I wore them in the darkness now. They
ASK ANYBODYYOU
Ask me a question, any question. How old is the Universe? It is one half-second old,
ask, for instance, "Why did you yell, 'Cheese'?"
asked me.
asked you for,'" he said. He looked about as pleasant and relaxed as a coiled
asking me to leave the establishment. I had created him, after all. I gave him a name:
associate a man like this with a Pontiac?'"
Association of Women's Clubs, and from the Chamber of Commerce, and on and on.
association with or sponsorship by General Mills, nor is it intended to disparage their
astronaut who arrived on a planet where all the animal and plant life had been killed by
at a time, instead. It wasn't right.
at a time. He became famous as a family man.
At any rate, something painless and supernatural was going on. Dwayne smiled
at Barrytron. His office door was always open to any employee who had troubles to
at Dwayne Hoover.
at high speeds with almost no lubrication, opened and closed glove compartment doors
at night, except for his pet. Trout, too, talked to his pet.
at once by the tax collector. The picture was given a place of honor in the National
at that time were training dogs to sniff out booby traps.
at the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown, among other things.
at the automobile agency's Christmas party at the new Holiday Inn the year before.
At the core of each person who reads this book is a band of unwavering light.
At the next table, also alone, was Cyprian Ukwende, the Indaro, the Nigerian. He was
At the time he met Dwayne Hoover, Trout's most widely-distributed book was Plague
ataxia and a woman with a goiter as big as a zucchini.
ate. "Wear this at all times," he told Wayne gravely, "and no harm can come to you."
Athanasius. It was named in honor of Saint Christopher at first, but then the Pope, who
athlete's foot. "It drove me and Kyle right out of there. We run the ventilating system for
attacked with their automatic shotguns. This was the same stuff which was fucking up
attention to him. He lay down to rest for a moment, and a drunk automobile worker
attention to their love affair. Dwayne was in a demonstrator again. Francine was in her
attracted to women that young. She was like a new automobile, which hadn't even had
automatically in a lottery. Three lucky people would each win a free, all-expenses-paid
Automobile Company, which the Robo-Magic Corporation had taken over. It showed a
automobile creatures hoped to borrow some oxygen, and to have the visitors carry at
Automobile Works became an armory instead of an appliance factory. All that survived
automobiles and nice clothes and a Me of leisure, and he could pay all the medical
automobiles, except for a few black criminals, who always wanted Cadillacs. And white
Avocado, a green wall paint manufactured by the O'Hare Paint and Varnish Company in
avoiding The Pluto Gang.
awaited Dwayne's reaction. Each molecule ceased its business for a moment, put some
awareness of every animal. It is the immaterial core of every animal—the 1 am' to which
aye-eeeeem." Bunny sat on the edge of his bed in the hotel room now, and he did it.
babies were arriving all the time—kicking and screaming, yelling for milk.
back of it, through which music for weddings and funerals was played. It was illuminated
back. The show wasn't on the air anymore, but most people still remembered the line.
Bad chemicals and bad ideas were the Yin and Yang of madness. Yin and Yang
bad chemicals which troubled Dwayne.
bad ideas. And, after Dwayne was carted off to a lunatic asylum in a canvas camisole,
bandsaw's cutting galvanized tin. It was loud, too. "Oh yeah?" she said. "Oh yeah?"
Bannister Law.
Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse at the County Fairgrounds after the Regional High
Bannister would never be forgotten. But nobody ever thought about him anymore by the
Bannister, a seventeen-year-old boy who was killed while playing high school football in
banquette in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn. It was dark in there, and quiet,
bar with Karabekian. Karabekian, who wore a sweatshirt imprinted with the likeness of
barrier, a sheet of aluminum foil, a three-inch airspace, another sheet of aluminum foil, a
Barring-gaffner awarded Gooz a check for that amount, most of which was taken back
Barry and his parents moved in. The old place was filled with the sounds of British birds.
Barry, its chairman, came to the hospital in his limousine, dressed like a Chinaman, to
Barrytron had no idea it was dumping this waste into Sugar Creek. They had hired
Barrytron would be absolutely sick when it learned what a polluter it had become.
basement, down among the black beetles and the millipedes, and did the laundry.
Basically, Miasma probably shouldn't have been in the field of medicine at all, or at
bat nipped her ever so slightly as she wrapped it in Kleenex, a face tissue. She carried it
bathing suit with a puff of pink cotton pinned to its rear.
baths and sunlamps and a swimming pool and so on. He told Cyprian Ukwende that the
be flabbergasted.
be given equal weightiness. Nothing would be left out. Let others bring order to chaos. I
be home to answer. He would be in a padded cell in the County Hospital by then.
be one was sacrilegious and a waste of time. You ever see one of His volcanoes or
be rendered destitute. He would become one more withered balloon of an old man on
Be that as it may, Kilgore Trout watched me from half a block away, not knowing who
be with his Indaro relatives. Back home, he had six hundred relatives he knew by name.
beacon for children to see. It was sort of an ice-cream cone on fire. It looked like this:
beat him up, too, but Wayne was a genius at dodging blows.
Beatrice Keedsler had been raised in there. The most famous murders in the city's
Beatrice Keedsler, the Gothic novelist, had grown up in Midland City. "I was petrified
Beatrice Keedsler, the novelist, say and do some more stuff for the sake of this book. I
beaver book which Dwayne Hoover would soon take so seriously.
beaver books for you."
became "Mouth Crazy."
became more nacreous with every wading stride. He carried his parcels and his shoes
became popular all over the world, especially among young people. It looked like this:
became the youngest person ever to die in the electric chair at Shepherdstown. Dwayne
because everyplace else had signs like this on the fences and trees:
because he didn't have nearly enough background information for any sort of understanding
because he had never had any serious trouble with Dwayne.
because her husband lost all their money by investing it in a car wash in
because of a tube of Norwegian hemorrhoid remedy which they had eaten about half an
because that was where some of the most violent crashing and grinding was going on.
because they were bad: "Ideas on Earth were badges of friendship or enmity. Their
become impregnated with the plastic substance from the creek, so he couldn't roll them
becoming extinct for this reason: they had destroyed their planet's resources, including
becoming more poisonous every day. He ate very little. He prepared his own food in his
bed. She was smoking a small cigar in a long holder made from the legbone of a stork.
bedtime: "Can do," he said. "Can do."
been a Nigger even spend the night in Shepherdstown."
been a Saint Christopher, so people shouldn't honor him anymore.
been acknowledged before. Their descendants inherited that frustration, I think, without
been farmland when Dwayne was a boy. There had been an apple orchard here.
been forced to learn by heart during his sophomore year in Sugar Creek High School,
been in the shoe repair place, saying this and that to Durling, the midget had
been on the show and the curtain was going up: "Kilgore Trout! This is your life!"
been rendered harmless. I would tell any wandering American now, 'Of course you can
been. She showed me where his brewery had been, where some of his dream houses
beers. You play some cards. You have some laughs."
Beethoven, knew he was surrounded by people who hated him for getting so much
before he used the toilet:
before me and Mary Alice Miller and Wayne and Dwayne and all the rest of us. He had
before the First World War. Also: they were told that they were unworthy to speak or
before, was unprepared for what could happen to an airport when a plane came in at
before. "And when you think of the shit that most of these factories make—wash day
began to cheat and rob and kill them.
began to trudge.
begin that evening. All over town people were wearing badges like Dwayne's. Here is
behind his head. His great wang lay across his thigh like a salami. It slumbered now.
being followed by a white Oldsmobile Toronado with a black vinyl roof. This four
being offered for a dollar, and people who paid even that much did so not because of
being was that kind of a machine.
being. He had spoken of this possibility several times to his parakeet. He had said, for
beings everywhere else. There were pictures and statues of this supposed imaginary
belched contentedly, and then these words appeared on the screen, but in the language
belief—any belief.
believes. If I want to make friends with him, I ask him what he believes. He tells me, and
bellied out toward the sidewalk everywhere. It looked as though somebody had been
belly. He honestly believed that they were unfeeling machines.
belonging to a girl I knew.
Benjamin Davis was first trumpet with the Midland City Symphony Orchestra, but he
Bermuda Em, and many other curiosities—including the tuxedo he had worn to a senior
Bermuda, and she would tell her friends.
Bermuda. His father, Leo Trout, while remaining an American citizen, worked there for
Bethlehem was, you know."
between two human beings I had created: Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout. I was not
big black animals everywhere, and a lot of them had very bad dispositions. They were
biggest wishes come true." He opened the door of the cage, something Bill couldn't
Bill could never have done. He opened the window. But the opening of the window was
Bill flew over to a windowsill. He put his little shoulder against the glass. There was
Bill? After all—I am from Bermuda."
Bill?" he'd say, or, "Seems like you've got a touch of the old emphysema, Bill," or, "We
bills—as easily as she had given him his hamburger and his French fries and his Coke.
bird.
bird.
bird."
birds and billions of fish, I say, 'More power to Standard Oil,' or whoever it was that
birthday, was a sacred day called Armistice Day. When I was a boy, and when Dwayne
birthday. But they certainly didn't look anything alike. Fred T. Barry didn't even look like
black man who was shot by British troops in Boston in 1770. There was an oil painting
black problem in the city, which was a big one, without giving offense to any black
black robots, essentially, in that they were programmed to be whatever they were, to do
blacktop apron outside his five-car garage.
blinds, and Harry would turn into a bird of paradise.
blizzard up above. And it was also the trade name for wood shavings which were used
block wall of the motel room now, with her fingers spread over her mouth. Harry
blood.
bloodstream. My pituitary had been making and storing ACTH for just such an occasion.
blow jobs to the same black man, who, for some reason, wore a Mexican sombrero.
blue fairy were flitting about that part of the dying planet, waving her magic wand over
Board at Shepherdstown. It was he who had decided that Wayne Hoobler, lurking
board made of pressed sawdust, tarpaper, one inch of wood sheathing, more tarpaper,
boating accident, when a youth. She was Women's Chess Champion of the United
Bobbins, and he had a penis nine inches long and two inches in diameter.
bodies could stand. Dwayne Hoover had seen it twice-once during a tour of
bodies with water-soluble paints. Men could be rubbed all over by a woman until their
body bag.
bombs after a bombardier pressed his bright red "bombs away" button. The button
Bonnie detested Karabekian, but she was as sweet as pie to him. She had a policy of
Bonnie limited herself to telling about Dwayne's dog, Sparky, who couldn't wag his
Bonnie MacMahon blew up. This was the first time she had blown up since she had
Bonnie MacMahon's uniform, since it was impregnated with fluorescent materials, lit up
Bonnie MacMahon.
Bonnie made a joke now as she served him his martini. She made the same joke
Bonnie was deceived by his enthusiasm and energized by the idea that Beatrice
Bonnie's back was to Wayne, so he could not see that she wore octagonal, rimless
Bonnie's costume gave off a faint, fishy, queer glow as she spoke. This was because
bonus for taking profitable orders!"
boob when a pathological personality like Elgin Washington told him what to want, what
book assured him that he had already been killed twenty-three times. On each
book by Kilgore Trout:
booth which was popular when Dwayne was a boy. A black man would stick his head
bootlegger and as a swindler in stocks and bonds. He kept all his money in cash, which
bordello in Rio de Janeiro, where I have been cleaning the unspeakably filthy toilets for
bored stiff by technical details. But no cry from a whistle had got very far from Earth for
boredom. Then he kicked at Wayne very suddenly.
born?"
bosom when he married her. She had thirty-nine-inch hips, a thirty-one-inch
bosom.
bought a packaged ensemble consisting of a cumberbund, a boutonniere, and a bow
bought cheap from a hijacker earlier that day. Kazak meant to kill and eat me.
bound to come.
bouquets of flowers all around. He was Elgin Washington, a pimp who operated out of
bowels of Sacred Miracle Cave.
bowels of Sacred Miracle Cave. Those fish were extinct. They had all turned belly-up
bowl of Arts Festival buttons on the table, and Eldon made Wayne put one on before he
box, a tired music box. They tinkled, stopped, then reluctantly, torpidly, they managed a
boys tried to see their underpants at all costs. Female underpants looked like this:
boys, when our grandfathers were boys. The whistles looked like this:
boys. They believed them, too.
brains combined were smaller than a pea. A pea was a legume which looked like this:
brand of peanut butter. Except that it wasn't really peanut butter on that planet. It was
bread and the stew and the pitchers of milk and coffee. He missed fucking other men in
Breakfast of Champions ·
Breakfast of Champions ·
Breedlove had put maple sugar in the gas tank of the Ventura. Maple sugar was a kind
bring you tidings of great joy."
brother of thousands upon thousands of rooms in Holiday Inns all over the world.
Brothers was the name of the funeral parlor for white people who were at least
brushes his mother had given him when he was elected Cadet Colonel so long ago.
Bugle-Observer. The picture was changed every six months. The motto hadn't varied in
builders in town. They had built Dwayne Hoover's house, for instance, which was a solid
bullets, too. Crispus Attucks himself had a hole in his forehead which looked like the
bumper which said this:
Bunny avoided the sunshine, too. And the water from the taps of Midland City was
Bunny did not resist him, even though Bunny's face was being mangled horribly.
Bunny Hoover's mother used to act whenever somebody tried to take their photographs.
Bunny Hoover's teeth also lit up, since he used a toothpaste containing fluorescent
Bunny Hoover, Dwayne's homosexual son, was dressing for work now. He was the
Bunny now smiled at himself in the mirror, in the leak.
Bunny played.
Bunny saw the trouble coming, supposed it was death. He might have protected
Bunny was a good one. His military training was useless, despite all the medals he won.
Bunny was refreshed. He got up from the bed, and he brushed his hair with the military
Bunny was sixteen years old. "There's nothing you or anybody could do about them
Bunny went on playing his white man's blues. They were slow and tinkling, with
Bunny's mother used to collect tinkling music boxes, among other things.
Bunny's piano, a Steinway baby grand, was armored with pumpkin-colored Formica
bursting in air,
bus, but with the seats removed. There were beds for thirty-six disaster victims in there,
business changed so much. But its management hung on to the company's original
business from home. Well even tell you how you can earn shoes FREE OF COST as a
But Dwayne elected to shoot up one of his tiled bathrooms instead. He put chunks of
But Dwayne wasn't all that weird before he met Kilgore Trout. His behavior in public
But every so often they would do something amazingly criminal. The Barrytron
But he certainly had a wonderful appetite. Trout watched him shovel waffles and pork
But he had nothing to write with, not even a burnt match. So he left the question
But he learned from his encounter with Dwayne that he was alive enough to give a
but he was a President of the United States who was shot to death. Presidents of the
But it was mind poison to Dwayne.
But nobody would listen to him. He was a dirty old man in the wilderness, crying out
but not forgotten."
But now Midland City looked unfamiliar and frightening to Dwayne. "Where am I?" he
But she couldn't simply walk away from her desk for the afternoon, since her desk was
But some of the nonsense was evil, since it concealed great crimes. For example,
but that half-second has lasted one quintillion years so far. Who created it? Nobody
but that he would joyfully do so before the Festival began. "You come highly
But the black people didn't call the school Crispins Attucks High School anymore.
But the black people wouldn't call that school by its proper name, either. On the day it
But the brightest new light in the room by far was the bosom of Kilgore Trout's new
but the legislatures and the courts declined to meet the problem head-on. They passed
But then a grain of sand crumbled. One force had a sudden advantage over another,
But then Robert was sent to Viet Nam.
But then the Federal Government came through with an emergency program. It gave
But then Trout hunched forward involuntarily, buckling the starched shirt bosom,
But while Dwayne babbled to his Labrador retriever about love, Trout sneered and
but with much greater speed.
By
By an unbelievable coincidence, that shit came from the wretched greyhound
by corkscrews. The wires which had to carry the instructions weren't insulated anymore,
by electric lights, which changed colors all the time.
by name was Alfy Bearse, who was a one-armed albino. "Hot enough for you, Alfy?"
by putting these words in the mouth of Rabo Karabekian: "What kind of a man would
by storks. People who told their children such a thing felt that their children were too
by termite exterminators and not even know it. You will buy steel-belted radial tires for
by the book by Kilgore Trout. Even when he was laid out horizontally by Cyprian
by the Rosewater Coal and Iron Company, which had acquired these rights soon after
By the time of Trout's death, of course, everybody called mirrors leaks. That was how
bygones were bygones. Then he made a cup out of his left hand, and he hit Don on the
Cadillac El Dorado capsized in a brook. It had Alabama license plates. There were also
call mirrors leaks."
called America for short.
called mirrors leaks. It amused him to pretend that mirrors were holes between two universes.
came close to telling her how sick he was. He warned her: "This is a very tough day, for
camera at either one of them during the daytime, the mother who was aimed at would
can remember when God spoke clearly to mankind.
CAN TRUST
can't hardly see the Sacred Miracle no more."
can. That was necessary. He saw a bathtub toy, a little rubber duck, lying on its side on
cans outside the back door of the Inn, and examine the currency which had been given
capricious silences here and there. Bunny's blues had some of the qualities of a music
card he had brought home. His lawyer planned to enter a plea of temporary insanity,
care of a white female nurse. The idiot couldn't talk much, and he had a lot of trouble
cascade of ruffles down its bosom. On the shirt salesman's advice, Trout had also
case I was wounded, my vital juices wouldn't drain away.
case they were listening, how intelligent we were. We had tortured circles until they
catching up on all the work she should have done that afternoon. Dwayne would beat
Cathedral.
caught in between.
caused the sex excitation center in Dwayne's brain to send nerve impulses down to an
cave by a rockslide.
cave.
cave?"
celebrations like that. But nobody got in his way. His old friend Anonymity was by his
Center for the Arts there instead. It was beautiful.
certain deeds and bonds and stock certificates.
certainly did that. Patty certainly did that.
certainly no competition for the wide-open beavers on sale in the back of the store.
certainly surprised me. I expected him to retreat in a hail of olives, maraschino cherries
cessful campaign for the local equivalent of Earthling peanut butter. The eye-catching
chair after all. He'd cut off his whatchamacallit and put it in the cup."
Chairman of the Board of Barrytron, Ltd., had coughed up fifty thousand dollars of his
Chamber of Commerce matching every two dollars raised with a dollar of its own. It was
change."
changed legally from Hoobler to Hoover, because there were so many black people in
changed," said Francine. She made a cage of fingers around her mouth. "Oh, God,
changing glycogen into glucose. Glucose was muscle food. It would help me fight like a
Chapter 1
Chapter 10
Chapter 11
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Chapter 19
Chapter 2
Chapter 20
Chapter 21
Chapter 22
Chapter 23
Chapter 24
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
character could be read into the way a man shook hands. Dwayne and Don Breedlove
character in a book by somebody who wants to write about somebody who suffers all
characters from my other books, too. I'm not going to put on any more puppet shows.
characters, minor characters, significant details, insignificant details, that it had lessons
Charleston, South Carolina, where he was auctioned off as a self-propelled, selfrepairing
chartered plane at Will Fairchild Memorial Airport, on the other side of the Interstate.
cheaply. White people were the only people with money enough to buy new
checkbook. He had no cash.
chemicals for killing plants and trees in Viet Nam." Viet Nam was a country where
chemist, and an amusing and useful friend of mine. I did not make him up. I would like
child who would only say that it wanted to go home.
childish name.
children, and their dog and their cat. They ate steadily for an hour and a half—soup,
children, the average size of the male sex organ on that particular planet—which was
Chinamen. We Americans require symbols which are richly colored and threedimensional
choices to make. Everybody else was a fully automatic machine, whose purpose was to
cholera or the bubonic plague. There was no immunity to cuckoo ideas on Earth.
chose to meditate instead. He closed his eyes, and his awareness sank into the silence
Christmas tree lights.
cigarette and some fresh air. He wore a large button on his sweat-soaked white T-shirt
circumference of a circle to its diameter. This ratio could also be expressed as a
cities in Godforsaken places like this—so they can make the same jokes over and over
Citizens submitted works of art to the government, and these were given numbers, and
citizenship, no matter what it cost
City, and it was an all-Nigger high school still. It was named after Crispus Attucks, a
City. Let's sell the God damn Xerox stock and buy a condominium on Maui." Maui was
City. The women all had big minds because they were big animals, but they did not use
City: to be born again. And Chaos announced that it was about to give birth to a new me
City—with five hundred dollars pinned to the inside of his underpants. The rest of the
civilization could begin again. But the smallest egg they had was/a forty-eight pounder,
Clipped to the letter was a check for one thousand dollars. Fred T. Barry explained
Clipped to the letter was one share of common stock in Barrytron, made out in the
clock in the tower. The clock looked like this:
close to guessing that they were making champagne.
close to Sugar Creek. In fact, he had hung a pair of tinsnips on the wall of the hospital's
close. "One point five," she said. Her own monthly average over the same period was
closed his door on the chaos outside. "All right—" he said, "what's happened at the
clothes I praised. That was part of the job. And I became friends with her two sons, who
clothes in all the years he'd known him. The clothes were conservative and neat, in
clothing, and not drab clothing, either. Harry and his wife would pull down the window
clouds of perfume behind. Trout gagged as he passed the door. It was an automatic
coagulants and all that. I did not know yet that I had retracted my testicles in all the
coal miners and workers on assembly lines and so forth as slaves, no matter
Coal was a highly compressed mixture of rotten trees and flowers and bushes and
coal.
cobbler named Gooz. Gooz lived alone, and he painted a picture of his cat. It was the
cocaine into his sinus passages, which amplified tremendously the telepathic messages
cock-sucking machine!"
cockamamie proprietorship.
Cockney midget, Durling Heath. He worked in a shoe repair shop. Heath had an
cocktail lounge, and from the planet itself, for that matter, by means of Transcendental
cocktail lounge. They knew what Rabo Karabekian had been paid for his painting, and
cocktail waitress. It is unwavering and pure, no matter what preposterous adventure
Cohoes, for instance, and I was to have to stay there for two days while it was worked
Cohoes. He learned the answer to a question many human beings were asking
cold water or waved in the air.
collection of the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts. Fred T. Barry, the
collide and collide. For want of anything better to do, we became fans of collisions.
colon and then cancer of the everything.
comb it or go to a barber. I made him grow it long and tangled.
come from. They had trekked from West Virginia to Midland City during the First World
come out and tell anecdotes about the person later on.
come to work in the cocktail lounge. Her voice became as unpleasant as the noise of a
comes up tomorrow," said Milo.
coming to town?" she said. "You never talked to anybody like that before. Maybe you
coming up north by the millions—to Chicago, to Midland City, to Indianapolis, to Detroit.
coming up, and I'm absolutely serious: burn your clothes and get new ones, or apply for
coming, they'll be up to Moby Dick in a week or two."
commanded Trout to be silent by giving him the evil eye. "What adds peculiar beauty to
committing some public nuisance, had caught him working with an old man's limited
company of which I am now Chairman of the Board. It is not only my company now, but
company was called The Robo-Magic Corporation of America.
Company.
Company. The company's monogram and motto hung in the night sky behind Kilgore
competition!" He blew his horn.
completely over an automobile.
composed of passenger pigeons and eagles and Bermuda Erns and whooping cranes.
composition of the stinking ping-pong balls which were being manufactured in the
concealing a straight run of stolen sewer pipe running directly from Barrytron to Sugar
concerned. He had plenty of company throughout all history. In his own lifetime, for
concluded that the writer might be fourteen years old or so. The letter said that Plague
condition: that it hire as a speaker the greatest living writer in the English language, who
connected to them by stale rubberbands.
Constitutional amendment. He hadn't been born inside the country. His birthplace was
Construction Company offered them twice what they had paid for it. So they accepted
contained a program for the Festival of the Arts, a letter of welcome to Trout from Fred
containing his tuxedo, six new pairs of jockey shorts, six new pairs of socks, his razor
contemplate the infertile egg of a Bermuda Ern. I took him from there to the Indianapolis
contemptuously "... a God damn Nigger farm."
content did not matter. Friends agreed with friends, in order to express friendliness.
content with making him feel and see queer things. They wanted him to do queer things,
conventional sense. She weighed two hundred and forty pounds.
Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown was proud of its dentistry program.
Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown. He needed work right away, or he would
corridors and at meals in Shepherdstown.
cost at least one hundred thousand dollars to build. Every house was on at least four
costume, which consisted of white cowboy boots and black net stockings with crimson
coughed up this symbol of their secret lives:
could be more predictable. But Nature was too creative for them. All life on the planet
could get a job making music in cocktail lounges almost anywhere in the world, and
could get drunk. The basic scheme was this one: they were to stay there and not bother
could get."
could go in there and photograph naked women, or they could paint the women's naked
could have shape and direction.
could imitate the Lyre Bird and the Willy Wagtail of Australia, the Golden Oriole of India,
could kill him or make him a millionaire or send him back to prison or do whatever he
could make a blank-cartridge gun out of its rear end. It could detonate its own farts and
could make a fortune with a dirty book. She told him that the hero should understand
could not wag his tail— because of an automobile accident many years ago, so he had
could read Karabekian's lips, however. He was good at reading lips, as was anyone
could see of me was the reflection of candle flames in my mirrored glasses, in my leaks.
couldn't believe that Eliot Rosewater was a grownup. Rosewater's handwriting looked
couldn't read or write could get good factory jobs. Niggers had money like they never
couldn't understand them. They would ask such impudent questions as, "Whuffo I want
Count Tolstoi freed his serfs, Thomas Jefferson freed his slaves. I am going to set at
counting the statue of Abraham Lincoln in front of the old Nigger high school.
country frustrated the white people in the North, who won it, in a way which has never
country were often shot to death. The assassins were confused by some of the same
County Road. He didn't tell anybody what he saw. He maintained secrecy.
course he had taken at the Young Men's Christian Association allowed him to
Course, and seventeen hundred shares of common stock in Barrytron, Limited, a local
courts to keep representations of such ordinary apertures from being examined and
crash down on her knees and protect her head with her arms, as though somebody was
crashed down again next to Trout, throwing off heat like a steam radiator. "The message,
crawled up your own asshole and died."
created it. It has always been here.
creation going on.
creation of any depth and mystery which was stored in his head. It was a poem he had
Creator of the Universe, sneezed.
Creator of the Universe, using a robot as an unfeeling conversation piece. A lot of
Creator of the Universe.
Creator, even if he was unwilling to use his eyes. I slammed the car door firmly. As I
creature in the Universe who had free will.
creatures ever to fly under their own power on the planet. And the last corpse had the
creatures were fully-programmed robots.
Creek Drive-In Theatre, Radio Station WMCY, the Three Maples Par-Three Golf
Creek.
Creek. The Chevy's driver was also dead. He had been skewered by the post of his
Creek. The milk truck was bleeding milk. Milk and blood were about to be added to the
Creek."
criminal neglect, or by tinhorn commercial greed and cunning.
Criminals would point guns at people and say, "Give me all your money," and the
cross. "I ain't even sure it's there anymore." He asked Dwayne's permission to order a
crossed Sugar Creek and the Westbound lane of the Interstate to the median divider,
crowbars and dynamite. Before that, not even small animals had been in there.
crowd. "Wind her up, and she'll fuck you and say she loves you, and she won't shut up
curb, and came to a stop in a vacant lot. Dwayne owned the lot.
customary drink, which was a House of Lords martini with a twist of lemon peel. She
Cyprian Ukwende, the black physician from Nigeria, had a penis six and seveneighths
damaged planet fifty years ago.
damn pleased with Wayne. That drink was for me.
dance just prior to his graduation from Thomas Jefferson High School in Dayton, Ohio,
dancing myriads of winking eyes on the surface of his drink. The eyes were beads of
dangerous, I know, and it can hurt a lot. That doesn't necessarily mean it's serious, too."
dangling at our sides.
Davis, Dwayne Hoover's maid, take care of Kazak. He threw raw meat down into the pit
dawn, at meals, at the start of every class, at games, at bayonet practice, at sunset, at
day on that account.
day. Their imaginations were flywheels on the ramshackle machinery of the awful truth.
dead. Everywhere were the shells of the great beetles which men had made and
death by the wintertime.
decency or self-preservation, but for friendliness.
deck of cards.
decode the mysterious words phonetically, without any satisfaction. "Wahee-io," he
deepest crack on the planet. They wanted to look down into the crack, but they never
defective loving machines.
defenselessness. He was ready for anything, and wouldn't mind death.
Defunct.
Delacorte Press / Seymour Lawrence
delivered Bill into the care of his landlady upstairs, and he hitchhiked to New York
deliverymen who were bringing a Robo-Magic into a house. A black maid was watching
dematerialize. Trout's cries to me faded as the distance between us increased.
demolished West Virginia and Southeast Asia. They had demolished everything. So
demonstrator and drove away, Patty Keene was persuaded that she could make him
department store for soldiers, and then to the University of Pennsylvania, where Robert
Depression, to impress me with how rich and powerful my maternal grandfather had
Depression. Also: Fred's father was an agent for Chicago gangsters who wanted to buy
Depression. I was sixteen or so. She was about forty.
Depression. They took over the old Keedsler Mansion, where Beatrice Keedsler, the
depths. It had somehow escaped from the busier parts of his mind. It wasn't connected
descendant of Francis Scott Key, the white American patriot who wrote the National
descendants continued to think of ordinary human beings as machines.
deserved.
desk clerk, Milo Maritime. Milo's clothing and skin and eyes were all the colors that
desk for a little while.
despite anything anyone could do.
destroy the countryside, and the old man said he was usually too tired to care.
destruction of West Virginia, which made their songs possible. He supposed that the
details of life which were immediately important, and by refusing to believe what my
details. In Trout's novel, The Pan-Galactic Memory Bank, the hero is on a space ship
determined that they were too numerous and proud and resourceful ever to allow themselves
developed echolalia. Francine was perfectly capable of running the place herself,
device, which blew up when it was accidentally twiddled in some way. One of the virtues
di Capistrano? He had found it in a garbage can in back of the new Holiday Inn.
diameter, but practically all of it was in the fourth dimension. He got his medals in the
diameter.
Dick and invade the Cathedral of Whispers, which was the main attraction at the cave.
did not want to spook them by staring at them as I worked their controls, so I pretended
did not wish to be ordered off the property for hanging around the used cars. So, when
didn't have much money.
didn't know who Wayne was. He welcomed him as a typical black robot. Any other black
difference between right and wrong.
dignified—erect, eyes straight ahead.
diminish him, but he was gentle with Trout. He closed his eyes as though thinking hard,
dinner jacket over a black turtleneck sweater now. Bunny looked out his only window at
dinosaurs—cries such as tvoooooooo-uh, wooooo-uh, and
dirty movie house downtown.
dirty movies. The music was soothing. Phantasms of a young man and a young woman
dirty old men did. He wished to arrive in Midland City as the dirtiest of all old men. He
discomfort he had endured. The Creator invited him to a banquet in his honor in the
discovered was started by an ex-slave, Josephus Hoobler. He was freed by his master,
discuss, whether they had to do with the automobile business or not.
discussed by persons not engaged in the practice of medicine. It was somehow decided
disease-carrying insects in his home.
disguised as science-fiction. He died in 1981, almost twenty years after he made
disposal system was a case in point. It was expensive, and it appeared to be complicated
distance between itself and its neighbors. Each molecule waited to learn whether its
distance, they looked as though they were made of stone.
do this, Bill," he said of the fungi he was murdering. "Fungi have as much right to life as
do, he thought he might as well show off his teeth. They were excellent teeth. The Adult
do: he imitated a Nightingale.
doctors' and hospital bills her father had run up in the process of dying of cancer of the
dodging machine. Only a perfect hitting machine could hit him. "You're too good for me,"
dollars in a taxicab."
dollars, or so they believed. But they had to earn money the hard way, just a few dollars
dollars.
Don Breedlove, the gas-conversion unit installer who raped Patty Keene, had a penis
Don Breedlove, the white gas-conversion unit installer who had raped Patty Keene in
Don Breedlove. Breedlove was the white gas-conversion unit installer who had raped
Don said was a lemon. A lemon was an automobile which didn't run right, and which
done what so many African families still do in Africa, which was to have one member of
done.
door of the cocktail lounge, and onto the asphalt prairie which surrounded both his Inn
door would be locked. Any sounds the human being made in there would come out of
door. Dwayne owned a third of the Inn—in partnership with Midland City's leading
doorway of a pornography store. He had swallowed a half pint of a new type of paint
dope and furniture. Still, the reindeer went on reproducing. There were these useless,
double doors to the morgue, as a lot of people did. He automatically mooned about his
down again. They were as stiff as flanges on sewer pipes.
down because the pain was so awful. Don would never hear anything with that ear, ever
down on barstools next to Bunny's piano. They were white. They were Beatrice
down the corridor from Jesse James. The statues were removing one another's chains
down the keys of the piano bar. Dwayne laughed, and he called his son "... a God damn
down uneventfully.
drains. Celia became a small volcano, since she was composed of the same sorts of
Drano—a mixture of sodium hydroxide and aluminum flakes, which was meant to clear
drapes of crimson velvet. On each table was a hurricane lamp with a candle inside,
dreadful confession, but I don't even know who Saint Anthony was. Who was he, and
dream come true on the other side of the Interstate.
dreams. It looked like this:
drive the car and what it was like to steer something like the Milky Way, which was one
driver was like. Trout had begged no such thing.
driver. "On the other hand, it costs a lot more."
driveshafts, staged head-on collisions, tore gearshift levers out by the roots, ran engines
drop of lemon juice.
dropping it somewhere for Wayne Hoobler to find.
drove like a maniac. The Galaxie was going ninety-two miles an hour now. "I'm one of
dumped it all in Sugar Creek.
dumped it." Trout raised his arms in celebration. "'Up your ass with Mobil gas,'" he said.
during the Great Depression.
Durling—where'd you get that shirt?" And so on.
duty to go, she thought— especially since Dwayne seemed so depressed and jangled.
Dwayne actually lost money on the transaction, making adjustments and replacing
Dwayne and Lyle and Kyle. Harry LeSabre, too.
Dwayne and Trout and I were boys. Girls concealed their underpants at all costs, and
Dwayne awaited his turn humbly. He had forgotten that he was a co-owner of the Inn.
Dwayne could do for her what the Fairy Godmother did for Cinderella, if he wanted
Dwayne did to Trout what the Duchess did to Alice in Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures
Dwayne didn't notice the restraints. He thought he was on the virgin planet promised
Dwayne didn't say anything.
Dwayne even forgot that his only child, a son, had grown up to be a notorious
Dwayne fiddled with his lapel for a moment, felt a badge pinned there. He unpinned
Dwayne fought down his echolalia. "I am going to ask you to do something I have
Dwayne glanced around craftily. Then he called out a signal he had used as a child
Dwayne had advised them not to do it. Here is how Dwayne knew her and her
Dwayne had already broken her jaw and three ribs in the office. When he trundled
Dwayne hauled his head from the keys, slammed it down again. There was blood on
Dwayne heard a tired voice from somewhere behind his head, even though no one
Dwayne Hoover and Harry LeSabre saw pictures like that when they were very little
Dwayne Hoover and Wayne Hoobler knew the first one, but not the second one. And
Dwayne Hoover didn't ask him what his name was, but the young man told him
Dwayne Hoover didn't know whether to believe that or not. Neither did Patty Keene.
Dwayne Hoover got through lunch all right that day. He remembered now about
Dwayne Hoover might be confused as to what his Me was all about, or what he
Dwayne Hoover now lost himself in the bosom of Trout's shirt, just as he had earlier
Dwayne Hoover read in that book that robots all over the world were constantly running
Dwayne Hoover read on: "You are surrounded by loving machines, hating machines,
Dwayne Hoover sat in the used Plymouth Fury in his own vacant lot for an hour,
Dwayne Hoover slept until ten at the new Holiday Inn. He was much refreshed. He
Dwayne Hoover so sick.
Dwayne Hoover was fabulously well-to-do when he met Kilgore Trout. A man
Dwayne Hoover was on the brink of going insane.
Dwayne Hoover was still mentally absent from activities in the cocktail lounge. He sat
Dwayne Hoover's awareness returned to Earth momentarily. He spoke of opening a
Dwayne Hoover's stepmother wasn't the only white woman who was a terrible sport
Dwayne Hoover, in order to augment her husband's salary and fill her days.
Dwayne Hoover, the demented Pontiac dealer, was coming down from the roof of his
Dwayne Hoover, the Pontiac dealer who is the hero of this book. Those unhappy
Dwayne Hoover: he had learned to play hide-and-seek with Dwayne's employees. He
Dwayne hurt only one person who deserved to be hurt for being so wicked: That was
Dwayne into full-blown insanity, and Dwayne would soon bite off the tip of Trout's finger.
Dwayne laughed. "African dodger!" he said. This had reference to a sort of carnival
Dwayne made no reply to this, so the young man went on: 'I am a very hard worker,
Dwayne mimicked her cruelly in a falsetto voice: "I don't even know what you think I
Dwayne missed it when two distinguished visitors to the Arts Festival came in and sat
Dwayne moved his lips as Trout sat down. He was saying this soundlessly, and it had
Dwayne now began to read hungrily, as though starved for print. And the speedreading
Dwayne on the walls of his cell at Shepherdstown. They were easy to get, because
Dwayne pulled open his floor-to-ceiling draperies for a moment. He saw the sign
Dwayne put on. His car had seats whose backs could be made to lie flat. They could be
Dwayne remembered clearly that a rainbow of oil from the trash was spreading prettily
Dwayne remembered the first trip the family took to see it. His father ripped a Nigger
Dwayne reserved most of his conversation for the dog. He would get down on the floor
Dwayne restrained himself in the name of elegance rather than safety. He was going
Dwayne said the name of that familiar surface water to himself now, silently: "Sugar
Dwayne shot the flamingo.
Dwayne silently said the name of the water again: "Sugar Creek."
Dwayne snuffled.
Dwayne snuffled. It was customary for him to communicate by means of snuffles
Dwayne snuffled. The air was rich with the smell of raspberries, which was the
Dwayne that he wished he were a woman instead of a man, because what men did was
Dwayne thought the park should be. Now they had put the Mildred Barry Memorial
Dwayne took another step in the direction of his automobile agency. He sank down
Dwayne understood him perfectly. The underground stream which passed through
Dwayne was a little boy, he had supposed that almost everybody lived in places that
Dwayne was a monster. It wasn't true. It was all in her head.
Dwayne was a widower. He lived alone at night in a dream house in Fairchild
Dwayne was going to give away at the end of Hawaiian Week.
Dwayne was grateful for a message that simple and clear. The twins were his
Dwayne was meanwhile getting crazier all the time. He saw eleven moons in the sky
Dwayne was silent for a moment after that.
Dwayne wasn't going to open any health club. He wasn't going to open anything ever
Dwayne went into the carpeted lobby of the place not long before sunrise, to ask for
Dwayne went off his rocker, Harry said to Francine Pefko, "Something has come over
Dwayne went up the Inn's back steps to the roof without meeting anybody. There
Dwayne's bad chemicals made him take a loaded thirty-eight caliber revolver from
Dwayne's dog Sparky hid in the basement when Dwayne shot up the bathroom. But
Dwayne's going berserk: He had amputated a black man's foot, whereas the foot could
Dwayne's head. At any rate, Dwayne suddenly snarled this at Harry: "Harry, why don't
Dwayne's incipient insanity was mainly a matter of chemicals, of course. Dwayne
Dwayne's late wife had thirty-six-inch hips, a twenty-eight-inch waist, and a thirtyeight-inch
Dwayne's monthly orgasm rate on the average over the past ten years, which
Dwayne's most recent Christmas card to Newbolt Simmons looked like this:
Dwayne's only companion at night was a Labrador retriever named Sparky. Sparky
Dwayne's relaxed body contracted as though each muscle in it had been stung by a
Dwayne's situation was extraordinary:
Dwayne's smiling face, with his motto underneath, was a part of every ad he ran in the
Dwayne's son Bunny had a penis that was exactly average.
Dwayne's wife had eaten Drano, Dwayne never wanted to hear about love ever again.
Dwayne, like all novice lunatics, needed some bad ideas, too, so that his craziness
Dwayne.
DWAYNE.
Dwayne. He used to be so charming. I don't find him so charming any more."
Dwayne—" she said, "you've changed, you've changed."
each generation whose duty it was to memorize the history of the family so far. Eddie
each place where a person had been injured seriously. This was the mark, greatly
eager to be recognized. The waitress lit the hurricane lamp on my table. I pinched out
ear with the open end of the cup. This created terrific air pressure in Don's ear. He fell
earlier in the day by Khashdrahr Miasma, but he had forgotten that. "Hey man, hey
earlobe, and more under his left nostril. There was dog shit on a shoulder of his coat.
ears and conscience of the Creator of the Universe. He sent messages by telepathy to
Earth below. Even so, I came out of the riot with a broken watch crystal and what turned
Earth, which was about Chinamen.
Earth. It looked like this:
Earthling named Delmore Skag, a bachelor in a neighborhood where everybody else
Earthlings had such swollen thyroid glands that they seemed to have zucchini squash
easily hypnotized. So, when he looked down into his martini, he was put into a trance by
easy for him to recognize Wayne Hoobler, out among the garbage cans, as a new
easy to stand by themselves, were sliding into valleys now.
eating shoepolish and so on. He had no fondness for alcohol.
Ecstasy bloomed on the barbaric face of Rabo Karabekian. "Citizens of Midland City,
Eddie focussed his eyes on an American flag which was stuck to the windshield. He
eighty-seven. Her husband's average was thirty-six. He had been slowing up in recent
Einstein or William Shakespeare. It was a female rabbit. She was the only female
either. Harry could be arrested for what he did on weekends. He could be fined up to
Eldon arranged for Wayne to get a free steak and mashed potatoes and gravy and
Eldon himself had a look through the peephole, told Wayne that there was a man
Eldon Robbins, too, had spent time in the Adult Correctional Institution, so it was
electric signs when ultraviolet lights in the ceiling were energized. The lights weren't on
electricity for a while. Coal had also powered old-fashioned steamboats and choo-choo
electronics firm. He owned dozens of vacant lots. He was on the Board of Directors of
eleven feet away. "Francine—?" he said.
Eleven Pontiac Village, and he turned into the parking lot of the new Holiday Inn next
Elgin Washington perceived that he had caught yet another human being without
else could believe, until it was much too late, how heartless and greedy they were.
else's asshole or mouth, or having it done to one by somebody else. Fascism was a
emergencies. He had jumped Dwayne Hoover from behind when Dwayne dragged
emergency room—for cutting off plasticized, unitized shoes and socks.
emergency with which he had to deal. This was in the wee hours. Veterans' Day had
Empire Furniture Company had taken over the premises now. It was gangstercontrolled.
Empire Room of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City, where a black robot named
employees Blue Cross-Blue Shield, which was health insurance. He had a retirement
enameled steel box in the back of the auditorium. It contained the projector and the
enchanted by sounds. Words became musical notes. Sentences became melodies.
enclosed his planet. He leaped at people as though the fence weren't there. The fence
enclosing stamped, self-addressed envelopes for their safe return. Sometimes he didn't
end of a table in a prison dining hall to Wayne. It represented the ratio of the
end of the telephone. I put the first most decorated veteran in Midland City on the other
end. He had a penis eight hundred miles long and two hundred and ten miles in
ended at the stroke of twelve.
Enemies disagreed with enemies, in order to express enmity.
England," he said, "I see France—"
engulfed by the high crime district, which was moving north all the time. So it wasn't a
enlarged:
enough breath left to make her vocal chords buzz. She could only move her lips
enough publicity, which was very important, to catch the attention of the Government,
enthusiastic chimpanzees to him. He wrote a story one time about an optimistic chimpanzee
entire lives to a search for truth and beauty—and didn't find doodley-squat!"
entire wall which separated the lobby from the cocktail lounge was a leak ten feet high
enviable frame of mind. This was the button:
environment with yeast shit.
epidemic of mind-poisoning. Here is how the disease was spread: a reporter wrote a
Epilogue
erection center in his spine.
erupt behind me. Kilgore Trout came nearer. I was almost indifferent to his approach, although
essay which argued in favor of creating a national park at a bend in Sugar Creek, the
estate and football and basketball and automobiles and television and alcohol—on
estate to which the family had fallen, and she suddenly clumped down into the
euphonious nonsense word to himself over and over again: "Aye-eeeeem, aye-eeeeem,
even a fellow-American, although he had taken his medical degree at Harvard. He was
even as big as an Earthling shoebox. They were from Zeltoldimar.
even at the time of his death, except that he was young.
even include a return address. He got names and addresses of publishers from
even when they built computers to do some thinking for them, they designed them not
evening shirt. Its brilliance twinkled and had depth. It might have been the top of a
ever knowing what it was.
ever said, ever will say. It's got to be somebody new."
ever saw."
Ever since Lyle had had his nose broken, the twins agreed that Lyle should do the
every half-million years? How about Dutch Elm disease? There's a nice conservation
Every person had a clearly defined part to play—as a black person, a female high
every time she served anybody a martini. "Breakfast of Champions," she said.
Everybody froze. Bunny Hoover stopped playing the piano. Nobody wanted to miss a
Everybody knew that. But the Maritimo Brothers were usually the best
Everybody up here naturally assumed Hoobler was a Nigger name."
everybody—because of his echolalia. He went into his inner office, and he ransacked
Everything else about us is dead machinery.
Everything my body had done so far fell within normal operating procedures for a
everything that was any good, and there wasn't anything to eat anymore, and still the
Everything was necessary. He saw an old white woman fishing through a garbage
everything, and one of the most expensive things a person could do was get sick. Patty
everything, was opposed to Communism. It didn't think that Earthlings who had a lot
Everywhere he went, bands would play "Hail to the Chief." The chimpanzee loved it.
evolve into ever more complicated life forms as the eons went by. Whatever shapes
exchanged Christmas cards.
excitement. I felt only vague discomfort down there.
Executions had become unpopular. There were signs that they might become popular
executive-type nameplate on his workbench, in case anybody wished to address him by
exist, nothing would make me happier than to have it reproduced again and again, and
expected to express gratitude to the Creator of the Universe, mainly for food.
expected to take seriously:
expedition in the family car, hauling garbage and trash out into the country, where they
experienced a sort of bittersweet happiness as he told himself, "Times change. Times
experimental creature. The Creator congratulated the creature and apologized for all the
explained to him what sort of a planet he was on and what sort of an animal he was,
Expressway, which was built on the old right-of-way of the Monon Railroad. The Monon
extraordinarily patient and loving and beautiful. Each had been shriveled by his
eyes swam, and Trout supposed they were swimming in alcohol. He could not know
eyes. "Mr. Trout, I love you," I said gently. "I have broken your mind to pieces. I want
fabulously well-to-do."
face was a quotation from his last novel, his two-hundred-and-ninth novel, which was
face was unrecognizable, even as a face—anybody's face. He had been given mor
Fairgrounds after Peanut University beat Innocent Bystander High School in the
fairly popular political philosophy which made sacred whatever nation and race the
fairyland. Rosewater remembered his mother's jewelry when the lights came on. He
familiar grassy median divider. After that came the three familiar east-bound lanes, and
families which meet once a week. It's a lot of fun. She teaches us how to comfort one
family moved to Dayton.
famous, too. Sometimes people would get on airplanes which were supposed to fly to
far as I know. The rest got their minds changed, some of them, about the value of
farm machine.
Farm."
faster when she waited on him—because Dwayne could solve so many of her
father was a pitiful old man. They were pale white broomsticks. They were hairless.
father's feet, too, which were long and narrow and sensitive. They were azure. They
favor. He was that kind of a machine. Washington knew he would stiffen. Every human
feeble springs. And our interrelationships were Byzantine.
feeding himself. The nurse put a bib around his neck.
feeling the tumblers fall.
feet far apart and his arms outspread. "The Abominable Snowman has arrived," he said
fell apart when Dwayne persisted in his nastiness. He told her that every woman was a
fellow human being ideas which would turn him into a monster.
felt the urge to thumb through his own book, Now It Can Be Told. This was the book
ferocious 1971 Chevrolet Caprice two-door. The Chevy had jumped the median divider
Festival of the Arts, the donor of the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts, and the
few minutes before Trout did. He would kid Bill about that. "How's the old respiration,
few tinkles more.
fieldhouse would have gone up anyway. The money was appropriated for the fieldhouse
fifteen years ago. The story was about another planet. It was a crazy story. They had
fifty-six murders in the past two years. Bunny's room was on the second floor, so his
fight all the time because it couldn't wag its tail, about the fact that his son was a
finally did," she said.
find pleasantly and playfully what it took me many angry years to find.
find some pictures he could masturbate to, since that was the only point of all the books
fine products.
first acknowledged the greatness of Kilgore Trout."
first fully automatic washing machine for use in the home. You will find the motto of that
First she drove her seventeen-year-old mother away with all her demands, and then
first used by news photographers, who often got to see up women's skirts at accidents
five and seven-eighths inches long and one and seven-eighths inches in diameter.
flag was still there. 
Flag-dipping was a form of friendly and respectful salute, which consisted of bringing
flagstaff from which a long pennant streamed. Here is what the pennant said:
flooding was a queerly pretty thing for water to do. Sugar Creek brimmed over silently,
flophouse now—in the most dangerous part of Midland City.
flourishes in a building my father designed. She wrote this ad for an end-of-the-summer
food and wine and beautiful women and pretty boys—and Heliogabalus would have a
fool him totally.
Football was a war game. Two opposing teams fought over the ball while wearing
footprints on the carpet—like this:
footsteps were not only deliberate but gritty, too.
for a week, and so on. They cleared the table slowly. They went waddling out into the
for a while. It was a water bed. Francine had a beautiful body. So did Dwayne. "We
for cheap and simple ones which weren't meant to live very long. His name was Eldon
for her than it is for me because of the mood of the Great Depression. She believed
For instance, on the day he insulted Harry's clothing, he also spent two hours with
for many years the tallest structure in Midland City. A city ordinance was passed which
for Niggers out there, telling them to come at once. "I want to talk to you," he said.
for sound ever to get in or out. A sound wanting in or out of Dwayne's dream-house, for
for that sort of work. He wore a cheap blue suit and a white shirt and a black necktie.
for that. Even if I did want out, though, I wouldn't go to Midland City to make a laughing
for the arts.
for the Boy Scouts of America, when more black young people were brought into
for the hundreds of Americans who had been taken prisoner during the war in Viet Nam.
for the privilege of throwing hard baseballs at his head. If they hit his head, they won a
for toilet paper in the jail. They got me on a Friday, late in the afternoon, so I couldn't
Foreign newspapers spread the terror, ran articles on how persons thinking of visiting
forget all about Hawaiian Week. Actually, Dwayne had designed the palm tree himself.
forgotten that the main thing they were doing was moving seventy-eight thousand
forgotten!" He begged Bonnie for more true stories.
form of suicide or worse. But agreements went on, not for the sake of common sense or
form of transportation from a distance, saw it whole. There was a message written on
formed a vast mirror in which children might safely play.
formed bubbles as tough as ping-pong balls. These bubbles were shouldering one
forming it into a parabolic dish. This made a searchlight of the shirt. Its beam was aimed
forth. He had bats in his bell tower. He was off his rocker. He wasn't playing with a full
found Dwayne nothing but charming.
found himself standing on the shoulder of the Interstate, gazing across Sugar Creek in
found in his brain. This was what caused the murders.
found, among a lot of other baroque trash, a picture of a truncated pyramid with a
founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Barrytron, Ltd.
founding fathers of the nation of Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout. The founders were
franchise."
Francine had an idea. "What about all these painters and writers and composers
Francine had put up on the wall in order to amuse people, to remind them of what they
Francine mused about the prison, where the guards were all white and most of the
Francine Pefko out of Dwayne's showroom and onto the asphalt. Dwayne wanted to
Francine Pefko was the first woman he had spoken to in eleven years.
Francine Pefko, his secretary, looked normal, except that she had a rope of flowers
Francine replied in blubbering gibberish that she had never wanted the franchise for
Francine told Dwayne that the twins were waiting for him in the inner office.
Francine was pure machinery at the moment, a machine made of meat—a typing
Francine wondered out loud why a thin, good-looking young man would love a
Francine wore a button on her bosom which showed a creature in a healthier, more
Francine. "And I'll never forget the sign on the front door of the building where all that
Francis Scott Key was only one of thousands back there. On the off-chance that Key
Fred T. Barry had offered to donate half a million dollars to the proposed museum, on
Fred T. Barry, incidentally, was exactly the same age as Trout. They had the same
Fred's father got so much money during the prosperity of the twenties as a
friendships that meant anything because he was on the road most of the time. He joked
from airplanes. The chemicals he mentioned were intended to kill all the foliage, so it
from Dwayne. It had a new car guarantee.
from Erie, Pennsylvania,
from his shoulder.
from outside Midland County, had no health insurance, and was destitute. He had no
from Richard the Lion-Hearted, who was a king. His real father was an itinerant
from slaves.
from the back:
front door of a birdhouse.
front of the disaster vehicle, looking out through the windshield, he had the feeling that
front seat of the Galaxie. He thanked the driver, whose name he had forgotten, and he
front teeth which were hypodermic syringes filled with deadly poison.
Fucking was how babies were made.
fun, the dying children sauntered off, their feet sticking to the planet, coming unstuck,
ga-ga as he was about the works of Kilgore Trout.
Galaxie, which was the name of the car. The driver didn't hear him, and Trout let it go. It
galaxy, which was called Harry LeSabre, would or would not be dissolved.
gallantly streaming?
Gallery, and people lined up for miles for a chance to see a painting worth a billion
Gang.
gangster's grandson, had made them with his own two hands. Her eyes were
gangster, Al Capone.
gangsters bought almost every desirable property in Midland City for anything from a
garters plainly showing across several inches of bare thigh, and a tight sequin sort of
gas-conversion unit installer named Don Breedlove in the parking lot outside the
gave each other squeezes which were dry and hard.
Gave proof through the night that our
General Hospital, which was for lunatics.
General Mills, nor is it intended to disparage their fine products.
General Motors products. He had decided to drive the Plymouth for a day or two in
generated by coal from strip mines in West Virginia, through which Kilgore Trout had
geologically speaking, continue to go down and up like window blinds.
George Hickman Bannister was killed while trying to get a hold of the ball on
George Hickman Bannister's father and mother and sister, Lucy, moved away from
George Hickman Bannister. It had a red light on top of it—to keep airplanes away.
Germany. This was it:
get in all right, but it couldn't get out again. It also relaxed the tiny arteries in his penis,
get not much in return, and to associate with other men and women who were poor and
get to the subway station on Times Square. So they walked together, encouraged by
get.
getting over his wife's suicide.'"
gibberish sprinkled with question marks.
GILGONGO!
girl on the cover of the program for the Festival of the Arts. This was the only
girl's underpants.
give her a beating in public, which his bad chemicals made him think she richly
give him the opportunity to reply grandly, "What is it that offends you so? I am simply
give shape to an American paradise.
give the customers a delightful and mystifying surprise.
given small amounts of money every month, so they wouldn't have to steal. There was
gland added the glucocorticoids to my bloodstream. They went all over my body,
gland, which had been making and storing glucocorticoids for emergencies. My adrenal
gleefully. The Great Depression had just begun. He and Dwayne were on a weekly
Gloria didn't want to do it. She had had a hysterectomy only a month before, at the
Gloria said she didn't want to man the nerve center. "I don't want to man anything,"
go bang in the noonday sun.
go down to a tavern where he would get drunk with some other drinking machines.
go home again, and as often as you please. It's just a motel.'"
God bless Rabo Karabekian!
goggle-eyed. They could hardly move. They said they didn't think they could eat again
going down.
golfclub.
gone to change a fuse. Also, he did not know what to make of Bonnie MacMahon's
gonna win the World Series this year, Durling?" and "You have any idea what all the
good at touching women the way they wanted to be touched, that tens of thousands of
GOODBYE, BLUE MONDAY.
got eyes anymore." Moby Dick used to have long-lashed blue eyes as big as dinner
got no pay for that, so he needed a real job. He wore a thick gown made of war-surplus
got through with the meat between. The syphilitics seemed tremendously
got to do it. Dwayne Hoover assaulted them as they walked from the car toward the
government owned human slaves. They used human beings for machinery, and, even
Governor that never again will anybody be sent to the Sexual Offenders' Wing of the
Grace now spoke loudly and scornfully about Dwayne's marriage. "He was so scared
grandson of Guillermo "Little Willie" Maritime, a bodyguard of the notorious Chicago
grass skirt, and a pink T-shirt which looked like this:
grasses and so on, and dinosaur excrement.
gratification, that Trout had begged to know what the sex life of a transcontinental truck
gravity required that they stick somewhere on the surface. Either that, or they could go
gray or dark blue. His shoes and socks were black.
great novel." He pointed at Dwayne Hoover. "What is the life story of that man?"
greatest living American novelist. There can be no higher praise than that."
greatest theoreticians on the subject of human liberty.
greatest wingspread of all, which was nineteen feet, two and three-quarters inches.
Greco. It had been loaned to the Festival by Eliot Rosewater, the patron of Kilgore
greedy machines, unselfish machines, brave machines, cowardly machines, truthful
green!, and pink!, Harry. We're not stuck any more with just black, gray and white! Isn't
grocery store one time. Trout had no idea who he was. As a science-fiction writer, he
grotesque human being who had ever come in there.
grotesquely ornamental ships were exposed. "Bermuda shorts and bobby socks, eh,
growing from their throats.
guaranteed to destroy herself, if she ever did hear about it." And so on. "Which she
guard, the gun of the guard, the bones and meat of the guard. What is that perfect
Guard.
guest put a quarter into a little box on his bedside table, the Magic Fingers would jiggle
had a Number Five Breakfast in the popular restaurant of the Inn, which was the TallyHo
had all kinds of stuff in there.
had become one hundred times as valuable, simply lying in the total darkness and
had been adopted by people who couldn't have children of their own. Their adopting him
had been demolished by men and machinery and explosives in order to make it yield up
had been. Every one of the monuments was a cellar hole.
had before.
had cleared the site and dug the cellar hole. The machine was idle now, caked with
had created him. He was embarrassed. It was hard for him to know how to respond,
had died of rabies contracted from a sick bat she found clinging to her floor-to-ceiling
had done to him: insulted his clothes.
had enormous families. And Skag was a scientist, and he found a way to reproduce
had just spit Kilgore Trout's fingertip into Sugar Creek. Don and Dwayne knew each
had learned to scream in Bermuda, when he was a little boy. The poem was all the
had made a pact with her that neither one of them was ever to mention love. Since
had made rotors in generators whiz around and around. America was jazzed with
had mentioned was a sales promotion scheme which involved making the agency look
had no choice but to continue to speak from darkness.
had no more use for solid information than did Rabo Karabekian. So now he could only
had nothing unusual to notice.
had opened fire on the advancing wall of bubbles.
had repairs done in excess of five hundred dollars during the week would be entered
had said that this was a danger—that a man could pay too much attention to it.
had singled him out for astonishing insults and abuse that day. Everybody else still
had supposedly given secrets about how to make a hydrogen bomb to another country.
had the distinction of being the second close associate of Dwayne's who discovered
had to go to the hospital. And on the map in the newspaper there was a mark indicating
had told him when he was only ten years old, which was this: Why there were no
had, but it had an awful lot of money because of donations from companies like Facebook and Google. So it bought doctors from other countries which
hadn't been a secret transvestite. On weekends he liked to dress up in women's
hadn't noticed whether Dwayne had changed or not. Vernon's wife believed that Vernon
half inches in diameter.
hand, but Wayne was very good at ducking. He dropped to his knees as the hand
hand: "This distinguished lady is a famous storyteller, and also a native of this railroad
hands with other old-fashioned storytellers to make people believe that life had leading
hanging of a white man she had seen in Cincinnati, when she was a little girl.
happened to open it up. It said to simply anybody, in effect, "Hey— guess what: You're
happily ever after. It would be like Fairyland.
happiness last?"
happiness, had somehow welcomed them to the society and its real estate.
happy with her young body, with her bravery and cheerfulness. She wanted to cry about
Harold Newcomb Wilbur. I awarded him the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Soldier's
Harry and his wife concluded that Dwayne had meant nothing more than what he
Harry closed his eyes. He never wanted to open them again. His heart sent this
Harry had to suspect that his secret was out. And it wasn't merely a comical secret,
Harry knew Dwayne better than did any other man. He had been with Dwayne for
Harry LeSabre said to Francine, "When a man has been in combat with another man,
Harry LeSabre was too choked up to point out to Dwayne that, no matter what he
Harry LeSabre, Dwayne's sales manager, had a penis five inches long and two and
Harry was startled, and then pain set in. Dwayne had never said anything about his
Harry went into Dwayne's office right after Vernon left. He expected no trouble,
Harry's opinion. His shirts were white. His ties were black or navy blue. His suits were
Harry. There's a long weekend coming up. I expect to see some big changes in you
has changed. You ask Vernon Garr."
hatch, too. You will stage scenes in the hospital waiting room, telling doctors and nurses
have a hearing in court until Monday. So I sat there in the calaboose for two days, with
have been sent there. Some mistake had been made. He had no friends or relatives. He
have done in a thousand years.
have heard that Perkins told him to keep in mind as he wrote, as a unifying idea, a
have mattered much, if it weren't for this: a lot of citizens were so ignored and cheated
have nothing but desolation and desperation here, you say? I bring you more of the
Hawaiian Week. The ukuleles and so on were no longer mysterious. The pavement between
he adored his room. It was so new and cool and clean. It was so neutral! It was the
He also began to assemble in his mind a system of beliefs which would be
He also sold fire extinguishers. He was a manufacturer's representative, he explained.
He and Dwayne were drawn together for a while—because his wife and Dwayne's
He approached his homosexual son.
He arose shamblingly.
He became energetic after that. "Bill, Bill—" he said, "listen, I'm leaving the cage, but
He blooped across the used car lot now.
He broke my watch crystal, even though I had created him, and he broke my toe.
He called himself to attention for a moment, became again the insufferably brainless,
he came out now. Sparky watched Dwayne play basketball.
He closed his draperies. He adjusted the heating and ventilating system. He slept like
He could fence and box and wrestle and swim, he could shoot a rifle and a pistol, fight
He dabbed at his tuxedo with a damp rag, and the fungi came away easily. "Hate to
He didn't think they were shames anymore. "Why should I care what happens to
He drove to lunch alone in an air-conditioned demonstrator, a blue Pontiac Le Mans
He even forgot that his wife Celia had committed suicide, for instance, by eating
he gave to his stories were often changed. "Pan Galactic Straw-boss," for instance,
He gawked around for witnesses. There was only one. Cyprian Ukwende stood on
he gets so he can sense the slightest change in his buddy's personality, and Dwayne
He got a ride in a truck. It was hauling seventy-eight thousand pounds of Spanish
He got lost in the basement for a little while, as a lot of people did. He found the
He greeted Dwayne with the Hawaiian word which meant both hello and goodbye.
He had a feeble will to survive. He thought the planet was terrible, that he never should
He had a name for a better world, and he often saw it in dreams. Its name was a
He had a penis one inch in diameter and seven and a half inches long. During the
He had been in orphanages and youth shelters and prisons of one sort or another in
he had been obsessed by one idea: that he would work for Dwayne someday, and live
He had collapsed into dog shit on the handball court under the Queensboro Bridge after
He had never exchanged Polaroid pictures with any other transvestites, had never
He had now also committed the lowest crime which an American could commit,
he himself was a vehicle, and that his eyes were windshields through which his
He hoped he was dead.
He knew how ridiculous he looked. He expected to be received abominably, dreamed
he knew that his truck was turning the atmosphere into poison gas, and that the planet
He knew, for instance, that his mother's side of the family had once owned the farm
he looked around, and they were getting restless about that.
He looked so much like a Chinaman that he had taken to dressing like a Chinaman.
He made carbon copies of nothing he wrote. He mailed off manuscripts without
He missed that papery voice. He missed the clash of steel doors. He missed the
He needed a woman, too, or a bunch of women who would fuck him hundreds of
he never got around to writing until he was an old, old man. It was about a planet where
He not only did without dead meat—he did without living meat, too, without friends or
He owned not only the Pontiac agency and a piece of the new Holiday Inn. He owned
He panted and laughed some more, and he thought of something amazing to yell.
He paused, and then he recited with wry mournfulness the beginning of a poem he
He planned to tell the people out there what he hoped to have in the way of a
He pointed out that the mineral rights to the entire county in which they sat were owned
He read the letter again. "They not only want Kilgore Trout," he said, "they want him
He really did own a tuxedo. It was in a steamer trunk which he had lugged from place to
He remembered out loud when he and other miners used to try to force the
He repeated the process with his other foot
He resumed his conversation with the traffic on the Interstate.
he said. This young man was not only a descendant of master criminals, he was a close
he saw a huge duck directing traffic at the intersection of Arsenal Avenue and Old
He saw that I held an apple in my hand.
He screamed when he dived into the icy water, screamed again when he came up for
he sent and received. He felt one hundred tunes bigger than life, because the
He shrugged. "Maybe they invited me because they know I have a tuxedo," he said.
He snarled at his recollection of it afterwards. Here is what he snarled: "Dumb fucking
He spoke of his wife and son again, acknowledged that white robots were just like
He stepped outside for some fresh air, and Dwayne came running up to him. Dwayne
He stopped in a dimple, looked up at another young black man. This one was
He studied the pyramid with the blazing eye on top. He wished he had more
He suggested that Trout, since Trout was in the combination aluminum storm window
He then socked Beatrice Keedsler on the jaw. He punched Bonnie MacMahon in the
He thought and thought. And then he kicked two times like a chorus girl. He certainly
He told Bill that humanity deserved to die horribly, since it had behaved so cruelly
He took the form of an eight hundred pound male cinnamon bear. He was a robot, too,
He turned to his Bengali assistant, young Dr. Khash-drahr Miasma. "Get some
he used to have to keep people who were going to be electrocuted company—back
He walked around Rome praising Christianity and bad-mouthing the Emperor, so he
He walked stiffly over to the piano bar. What made him stiff was his awe of his own
He was a graduate of West Point, a military academy which turned young men into
He was a pain in the neck in a lot of ways. The truck driver got sick of him after an
He was being machinery again. Trout was, like so many Earthlings, a fully automatic
He was by then recognized as a great artist and scientist. The American Academy of
He was elated when the clerk let him have a room key. He had passed the test. And
He was floating toward me like a zeppelin, hanging lazily in air.
He was going to be electrocuted for rape. So my husband sat out in the corridor outside
He was his own boss, in that he represented products whose manufacturers couldn't
He was in no hurry to get back to his automobile agency, particularly since he had
he was likely to encounter.
He was offered a Bible which had everything that God or Jesus had actually said out
He was often tempted during all those years of perfect solitude by visions of good
He was out there all alone. Nobody from the cocktail lounge had followed him yet.
He was slow to get his breath back, so he wasn't much of a conversationalist at first.
he was supposed to scream in case he saw a girl's underpants by accident in the playground.
He wasn't quite penniless. There was a ten-dollar bill in the watch pocket of his
He went past his principal place of business, which was Dwayne Hoover's Exit
He went to New York first—because he hoped to find some of his books in
He wished to say, too, "Does this McLuhan, whoever he is, have anything to say
He won all those medals in the Second World War, which was staged by robots so
He would bounce up and down.
he would say. "Where you been keeping yourself, Alfy?" he'd say. "You're a sight for
He would show off his medals, and his mother would tell him when his father was out
he'd probably have the whole galaxy go up like a celluloid collar. That's what the Star of
headed up by a dictator. The dictator had to be obeyed, no matter what he told
heads. They were the arbitrary lusts for gold, and, God help us, for a glimpse of a little
health club in Midland City, with rowing machines and stationary bicycles and whirlpool
hear him, "What kind of a man would turn his daughter into an outboard motor?"
heard before. Here is what he hoped new truths might do for him: enable him to laugh at
heart-rending cries had fled into outer space, along with the heat. He was mistaken.
Heights, which was the most desirable residential area in the city. Every house there
held up on the average of fourteen times a year. And I tell you that the Dwayne of today
helicopters and all that, but I gave it up. There's a river in Cleveland which is so polluted
Heliogabalus would have a human being put into the bull through the door, and the
Hellertown, Pennsylvania. The vertical stripe was dayglo orange reflecting tape. This
her a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise, which was a scheme for
her and took out her guts, but then he and his wife Grace decided that they had better
Her biggest secret, of course, was one that Bunny didn't detect until she knocked
her father killed her.
her garments were heavily impregnated with fluorescent chemicals. So was the bartender's
Her husband, meanwhile, was at home watching professional golfers on television,
her income by far came from tips, and the way to get big tips was to smile, smile, smile,
her legs far apart, so that the mouth of her vagina could be seen. The expression was
her mouth, too, and she was saying this:
her outside, there was a fair-size crowd which had drifted out of the cocktail lounge and
her sleep.
her up very soon.
Here and there an inhabited dwelling still stood.
Here is all she had to say about death: "Oh my, oh my."
Here is the explanation: There used to be only one Nigger high school in Midland
Here is the message on the book of matches, which I read an hour and a half later,
Here is what Dwayne said to the policemen as they cuffed his hands behind his back:
Here is what Dwayne yelled in the ambulance: "Goodbye, Blue Monday!" Then it
Here is what he called, and the sun was down when he called it: "Olly-olly-ox-infreeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
Here is what he had been criticized for, just before the alarm came in about
Here is what he said to all those rusting junkers who were out of gas: "You will be gone,
Here is what it said:
Here is what made Francine think he was becoming happier: Dwayne began to sing
Here is what the flag of Kilgore Trout's native island looked like:
Here is what the last night of that weekend was like for Dwayne: his bad chemicals
Here is what their flag looked like after they got well again:
Here is what their flag looked like:
Here was another piece of evil nonsense which children were taught: that the sea
Here was the core of the bad ideas which Trout gave to Dwayne: Everybody on Earth
Here was the explanation: this young black man had just been paroled from the Adult
Here was the F.B.I. evaluation of Leo's situation on the planet at that time: Tour boy's
Here was the motto:
Here was the plot: A flying saucer creature named Zog arrived on Earth to explain
Here was the poem:
Here was the problem: Dwayne wanted Francine to love him for his body and soul,
Here was the text of the sign Dwayne read:
Here was the word: "Blue." Here is what it looked like to Bunny Hoover:
Here was what Kilgore Trout cried out to me in my father's voice: "Make me young,
Here was what was really wrong with the car, incidentally. The child of a neighbor of
Here would be a good tombstone for Wayne Hoobler when he died:
here, I'm going to have to tell them, "Well—there was a promise I made to a man I
here. He has a private collection of forty-one of your novels and sixty-three of your short
hero's search for a father.
heroines alike looking for mothers instead. This needn't be embarrassing. It's simply
herself off with Drano: Celia Hoover was crazy as a bedbug.
herself, that she had wanted it for Dwayne, that everything she wanted was for Dwayne.
high society woman in a fur coat and pearls. She was leaving her mansion for a
highest decoration for heroism which an American soldier could receive, which looked
him a queer story about a night he spent in West Virginia, in the cab of his truck, near a
him most, he said, was a series of laboratories and out-of-doors test areas where
him that he didn't even notice, to die for him, if necessary, and so on.
him that he went swimming in cold water on the virgin planet, that he always yelled
him to read Kilgore Trout's novel in minutes instead of hours.
him to. It was something I had ached to have a character do for years and years.
him.
him? Can you believe it? He doesn't have a doodley-squat now, but he used to be
himself and his Creator.
himself easily with all the techniques of fighting he had learned in military school. But he
himself in chicken soup. He would shave living cells from the palm of his right hand, mix
himself with calories which would get him through yet another day.
himself, said this to himself: "That ain't Mr. Hoover. Sure look like Mr. Hoover, though.
himself. He swerved into Exit Ten at a high rate of speed, slammed into a guardrail,
hint around right after we've made love. Let's keep love-making and presents separate.
his automobile agency and the new Holiday Inn was no longer a trampoline.
his avocado 1970 Plymouth Barracuda fastback, which he had bought as a used car
His bad chemicals let him cross the lobby and then the cocktail lounge, which wasn't
his bed.
His biographer was another Egyptian, Saint Athanasius, whose theories on the
His breath. With such a higgledy-piggledy cultural smorgasbord before you, what would
His brother-in-law, he said, owned twenty-eight trucks, and was President of the
his desk drawers for something to read or think about. He came across the brochure
His feet, which were sheathed in plastic, were meanwhile getting hotter all the time.
his fingers when he was kidding.
his handkerchiefs in a dresser drawer.
His heart slowed. His respiration nearly stopped. A single word floated by in the
His high school was named after a slave owner who was also one of the world's
his knees. His bared shins were rococo with varicose veins and scars. So were the
his license plate was. He felt guilty about that, even though he knew he had done
His mistress and secretary, Francine Pefko, had thirty-seven-inch hips, a thirty-inch
his mother had looked when he saw her through the bleary eyes of infancy.
his new evening shirt and all, right away. The lower parts of his rolled-up trousers had
his pants rolled up to his knees.
his right hand, partly shrouded in a bloody handkerchief, which looked like this:
His sense of feel was so delicate that he could open any safe in the world by
His stepmother at the time of her death had thirty-four-inch hips, a twenty-four-inch
his troubles, to go on living, and to keep out of the North Wing of the Midland County
His voice was my father's voice. I heard my father— and I saw my mother in the void.
his walking had made it big enough, it would swallow him up. There would be food
historic meeting between Dwayne Hoover and Trout. The price of gold was still on the
history had been committed there. Will Fairchild, the war hero, and the maternal uncle
hitchhikers.
Holiday Inn was within easy walking distance. So he gathered up his parcels from the
home or were reported dead or missing.
home town, during an Arts Festival there in autumn of 1972.
homicidal maniacs for use in war.
homosexual. His name was George, but everybody called him "Bunny." He played
homosexual. She knew all those things about Dwayne. Everybody knew those things
honor of a hill in Jerusalem, thousands of miles away. Many people believed that the
honor of the wife of New-bolt Simmons, a County Commissioner of Public Safety. She
Hoobler, adrift among Dwayne's used cars during Hawaiian Week.
Hoobler, at least. Wayne was back among the used cars again, unscathed. He was
Hoobler, the black parolee, who still lurked among the used cars. Dwayne would try to
Hoover himself discovered the crack, and then he and his stepfather opened it with
Hoover stare into the bosom of the shirt of Kilgore Trout. I was wearing a bracelet which
Hoover was a boy, all the people of all the nations which had fought in the First World
Hoover's body was manufacturing certain chemicals which unbalanced his mind. But
Hoover's clearest recollections from the Great Depression, for instance, was when his
Hoover's Exit Eleven Pontiac Village, just off the Interstate, next door to the new Holiday
Hoover. Neither would Kilgore Trout.
Hotel.
Hotel. He would be by no means the only drifter of whom it could be truthfully said, "See
hour before. The manufacturer had never intended the stuff to be eaten. People were
hour or two. Trout used the silence to make up an anticonservation story he called
hours a day, every day, since she was three.
house on fire. He rushed into the house, farting and tap dancing, warning the people
House.
house.
housekeeping machine. They were programmed to bawl each other out for being
How much do you already know about Forty-second Street?"
how to get better performance from his car. He was told what to do about constipation.
how vile he could be.
how wars could be prevented and how cancer could be cured. He brought the
human being to believe anything, and to behave passionately in keeping with that
human beings. Actually, millions of human beings were already living full and imaginative
human machine. But my body took one defensive measure which I am told was without
humorless, heartless soldier he had learned to be in military school. He murmured the
hundred and seventeen novels and two thousand short stories by the time he met
hundred horsepower, front-wheel drive vehicle was burbling along at about three miles
hundred miles an hour, if it has to. It's fast and useful and unornamental. It's as up-todate
hundred of his ancestors, and had at least an anecdote about each. They were
hundred thousand dollars by the time adequate parking and exterior lighting and all that
hundred thousand light-years in diameter and ten thousand light-years thick. It revolved
hundreds of tons of unwanted printed material every day."
husband Ralph: They had bought nine Pontiacs from him over the past sixteen years.
I agree with Kilgore Trout about realistic novels and their accumulations of nit-picking
I am programmed at fifty to perform childishly—to insult "The Star-Spangled Banner,"
I called you."
I captured it easily, held it up to my own right eye, which looked like this:
I could have killed him, and his pilot, too, but I let them live on. So their plane touched
I did not and do not know for certain that I have that disease. This much I knew and
I did not expect Rabo Karabekian to rescue me. I had created him, and he was in my
I do. They know what they want, Bill. Damned if 7 do anymore."
I drew the Earthling symbol for everything, which was this:
I drew the Earthling symbol for nothingness, which was this:
I gave him the same legs the Creator of the Universe gave to my father when my
I had it disperse itself again.
I had nothing in my hand, but such was my power over Trout that he would see in it
I have no culture, no humane harmony in my brains. I can't live without a culture
I knew how this book would end. Dwayne would hurt a lot of people. He would bite off
I laughed there in the dark, tried to turn on the light again, activated the windshield
I made him snaggle-toothed. I gave him hair, but I turned it white. I wouldn't let him
I made Rosewater an alcoholic in another book. I now had him reasonably well
I might have shaken his hand, but his right hand was injured, so our hands remained
I never hear that word anymore: Prosperity. It used to be a synonym for Paradise.
I now make my living by being impolite. I am clumsy at it. I keep trying to imitate the
I salute you," he said. "You have given a home to a masterpiece!"
I saw one stand on a curb at the corner of Meridian and Washington Streets one
I say, 'Yeah, yeah-ain't it the truth?'"
I see a little girl's
I see England,
I see France;
I shall come forth as gold.
I should have noticed the queer shape of the fence when I got out of my automobile,
I stopped with the tips of my shoes on the rim of the narrow field of his downcast
I suspect that this is something most white Americans, and nonwhite Americans who
I think I am trying to make my head as empty as it was when I was born onto this
I think it must be some miracle fiber. It's blue. You know what I mean by blue?" And so
I thought instead of my paternal grandfather, who had been the first licensed
I thought it would be a good idea to let him have a good look at me, and so attempted
I thought Karabekian with his meaningless pictures had entered into a conspiracy with
I travel in time back to November eleventh, nineteen hundred and twenty-two.
I turned toward him, so that my sinus cavities, where all telepathic messages were
I was about to be attacked by a Doberman pinscher. He was a leading character in
I was on a par with the Creator of the Universe there in the dark in the cocktail
I was, not knowing about Kazak and what my body had done about Kazak so far.
I went easy on him, didn't wave, didn't stare. I kept my glasses on. I wrote again on
I will come to a time in my backwards trip when November eleventh, accidentally my
I wondered how I might fit my bracelet into my story, and hit on the good idea of
I wouldn't feel particularly good if I found another father. Neither would Dwayne
I wouldn't let her. "Can you see anything in the dark, with your sunglasses on?" she
I'd know you anywhere. Welcome to Midland City. We need you sol"
I'd see folks go in, and I'd see folks come out," he said, "but I couldn't figure out what
I'm coming back. I'm going out there to show them what nobody has ever seen at an
I'm your Creator," I said. "You're in the middle of a book right now—close to the end
ideas of how things could be and should be on the planet, as opposed to how they
ideas people had about Monday. One idea was that women traditionally did their
identical twins, seated on a couch with their legs wide open.
idly exercising his skill at making strangers come to him. He was a fisherman for men's
If all writers would do that, then perhaps citizens not in the literary trades will
If he saw a child near a mirror, he might wag his finger at a child warningly, and say
If they studied their paper money for clues as to what their country was all about, they
If you're in a real jam, they'll help you, because you're one of 'em. You belong. They see
imitate birds from various parts of what used to be the British Empire. The thing was,
imitate white Americans, should do. The things other people have put into my head, at
impoliteness which was so graceful in Phoebe Hurty. I think now that grace was easier
in 1924. Trout was born in Bermuda, and attended grammar school there. But then his
in a room without bath in the old Fairchild Hotel, which used to be fashionable. It was a
in a tuxedo, Bill. Some mistake has been made."
in air instantly, sheathed his foot in a thin, skin-tight bootie resembling mother-of-pearl.
In an earlier version of this book, I had Benjamin Davis, the black husband of Lottie
in bad trouble," they said.
in case he was conversing with an hallucination.
in circus crowds when I was a boy.
In Dwayne's part of the planet, anybody who wanted one could get one down at his
in him with a gun. Sometimes a husband would get so mad at his wife that he would put
in his cell told of people's dying of exposure from time to time.
in his life. It was Wayne Hoobler, who came out from among the used cars
in honor of the poet Walt Whitman. The bridge was veiled in smoke. The truck was
In Memory o£ Phoebe Hurty,
in my direction. All he could see were the leaks over my eyes. I did not worry about his
In some places people would actually try to eat mud or suck on gravel while babies
in some surprise, Trout lifted one coated foot from the water, the plastic substance dried
in speed-reading at night at the Young Men's Christian Association. This would enable
in super-secret weapons work. They thought at first that he might be pretending to be
in the ambulance. He had to use his uninjured left hand.
in the bittersweet mulch of rotting Erns.
in the body of the book.
in the country which had stuck in their minds.
in the eyes of their husbands, had become unclean, said the radio.
In the language of the planet, that meant "Extinct!"
in the letterhead, which displayed two masks intended to represent comedy and
in the other universe, he saw a red-eyed, filthy old creature who was barefoot, who had
In the same week Dwayne Hoover ran amok, a fourteen-year-old Midland City boy
in the Universe, on the off-chance that he should appear.
in their associates. Their imaginations insisted that nobody changed much from day to
in their own bodies which were bad for their heads. But there were thousands upon
in their own excrement. Because of their limited intelligence, they never came
in there somewhere for Awareness—without which the "E" and the "M" and the "c,"
in there, with a white telephone and a color television set and boxes of candy and
in trade the day before. The Plymouth was a Chrysler product, and Dwayne himself sold
in Viet Nam, they said. He had committed high treason. He had joined the Viet Gong.
in Wonderland. He rested his chin on poor Trout's shoulder, dug in with his chin.
in. Neither had his father glanced in his direction. They had not exchanged greetings for
Inc., for use on a breakfast cereal product. The use of the identical expression as the
Inc., for use on a breakfast cereal product. The use of the identical expression as the
inches in diameter.
inches in diameter.
inches long and one and three-quarters inches in diameter.
incidentally: The country didn't produce nearly enough doctors for all the sick people it
included the last years of his marriage, was two and one-quarter. Grace's guess was
India and Pakistan wouldn't have anything to do with their wives anymore. The women,
indication in the letter that the writer, whose name was Eliot Rosewater, was a grownup,
information about the pyramid and the eye. There was so much to learn!
information from Margo, a planet where the natives conversed by means of farts and
information on The Pluto Gang, so police went looking for information on The Pluto
information, my fingers were crossed."
inhabitable anymore. They had too many people and not enough space. They had sold
Inn.
innocent form of athlete's foot.
inside.
inside.
inspector or some such thing.
instance, "Honest to God, Bill, the way things are going, all I can think of is that I'm a
instance, had to go through an inch and a half of plasterboard, a polystyrene vapor
instance, so they could live unselfishly and trustingly—except that they had surrendered
instance, the people in a country called Germany were so full of bad chemicals for a
instance. He supposed that the electricity in there had failed, and that somebody had
instead of thinking machines. All their minds had to do was to discover what other
internationally famous human being in Midland City. She was Mary Alice Miller, the
intersection of two cracks. "It never was real easy to see," said Lyle, speaking of the
Interstate, and of a mile or more of Will Fairchild Memorial Airport, which lay beyond.
into a newspaper or anything. It was enough for her that they were set in type.
into all the holes which had been dug into it. Its mountains, which had once found it
into mud. It sucked off his right shoe. He dug the shoe out with his hands, and he wiped
into the short vessels connecting my hypothalamus and my pituitary gland.
invasion of privacy by Kilgore Trout. The letter from Rosewater promised that he would
invention, and I stared through my leaks at a white cocktail waitress of my own
invention, I mouthed this word: schizophrenia.
invention. I named her Bonnie MacMahon. I had her bring Dwayne Hoover his
invisible that the search cost eighteen thousand dollars.
is a Dwayne I never saw before."
is not.
Islands, the place where the lucky winners of Dwayne Hoover's contest in Midland City
It awaited anybody. It awaited Dwayne.
It had two brains, one for its front end and one for its rear end. It was extinct. Both
It involved plastering the sides of old houses with colored cement, so that, from a
it is exhausting, having to reason all the time in a universe which wasn't meant to be
It is hard to adapt to chaos, but it can be done. I am living proof of that: It can be
It sank beneath Dwayne's weight. It dropped Dwayne to well below street level, then
It seems to me that really truthful American novels would have the heroes and
It slowed him down to be called by name.
It spelled out the truth of her situation. This was it:
it to happen to him: He would be picked up and questioned by policemen, because he
It was a flawed equation, as far as I was concerned. There should have been an "A"
It was a lot of money. Trout was suddenly fabulously well-to-do.
It was a sawed-off telephone pole-swaddled in burlap. It had real coconuts nailed to the
It was a scandal what the painting cost. It was the first purchase for the permanent
It was a tour de force. It was a jeu d'esprit.
It was after the mention of adoption that Dwayne blew up. He himself had been
It was certainly loyal of her to put that sticker on her car. she was always doing loyal
It was during that minute in nineteen hundred and eighteen, that millions upon
It was during this same semester that she lost her virginity. She was raped by a white
It was high time, I thought, for Trout to meet Dwayne Hoover, for Dwayne to run
It was his pilot who caused the airport's runways to become an ex-convict's idea of
It was intermission time when they got there, so Don had some time to think about
It was silent property of the city now, and there was talk of making it into a museum
It was such a famous dental program, in fact, that it had been written up in medical
It was the law of their nation, a law no other nation on the planet had about its flag,
it was time for Dwayne to demand from Kilgore Trout the secrets of life.
It was Trout's fantasy that somebody would be outraged by the footprints. This would
It was Trout's theory that the atmosphere would become unbreathable soon.
It's for an arts festival," said Trout.
It's gradual."
It's true," said Dwayne.
it, having no recollection of what it said. It was a boost for the Arts Festival, which would
it, too. "Nous esprons que notre grand-pere vivra encore longtemps," said the tape. And
it.
it. Then he leaned against an old apple tree while he put the shoe back on. This had all
it."
its atmosphere.
its changing moods. "Everybody goin' home," he said during the rush hour jam.
its coal. The coal was mostly gone now. It had been turned into heat.
its concrete trough at the new Holiday Inn. There were no bridges across the creek. He
Its full name was The Martha Simmons Memorial Mobile Disaster Unit, named in
its radio turned on yet, and Dwayne was reminded of a ditty his father would sing
jacket. So were the African masks on the walls. The chemicals would shine like
Jesse James was a skeleton which Dwayne's stepfather had bought from the estate
Jimmy Valentine was a famous made-up person in another writer's books, just as
Jimmy Valentine.
job an American can get these days is committing suicide in some way."
job redone with all the money you've saved on paint and heat."
jostling companionship he provided during the test, but for the trashy, stinking condition
journals and in the Reader's Digest, which was the dying planet's most popular
joy?" He was wearing his tuxedo now. It was a size too large for him. He had lost much
juices the food was, even though the food was fake.
junction. Perhaps you could tell her some recent true stories about her birthplace."
just go over to the freight yard, and carry away all the books you wanted."
just now. The bartender turned them on at random times, at his own whim, in order to
just one layer of glass between Bill and the great out-of-doors. Although Trout was in
Kago did not know that human beings could be as easily felled by a single idea as by
Karabekian slid off his barstool so he could face all those enemies standing up. He
Karabekian, entitled The Temptation of Saint Anthony. My duplicate was a miniature of
Karabekian. Wayne obeyed.
Kazak sprung.
Kazak was crouching behind a pile of bronze pipe which the Maritime Brothers had
Kazak was flung back by the fence. Gravity took charge of him as it had taken charge
Keedsler honestly needed true stories for her books. "Well—" she said, "would you consider
Keedsler Mansion, on the other side of Fairchild Boulevard.
Keedsler's private zoo. Then he shot himself through his heart.
Keedsler, the Gothic novelist, and Rabo Karabekian, the minimal painter.
Keene was standing on, incidentally. It was riding on a slab about forty miles thick, and
Keene's father's sickness cost ten times as much as all the trips to Hawaii which
Kennedy High School was going up. John F. Kennedy had never been in Midland City,
kept him well within the limits of acceptable acts and beliefs and conversations in
kept in front of the Westinghouse refrigerator.
Key had begun to store in his mind the names and adventures of ancestors on both his
KIDNAP PAIR
kidnapped as a child from the slopes of Mount Everest, and taken as a slave to a
kidnapped by pure evil in a white Oldsmobile. The police wanted to know how many
Kilgore Trout assumed that the Arts Festival would still take place that night. He had
Kilgore Trout entered the cocktail lounge. His feet were fiery hot. They were encased
Kilgore Trout had a penis seven inches long, but only one and one-quarter inches in
Kilgore Trout had my father's shins. They were a present from me. I gave him my
Kilgore Trout invented a son for Jimmy Valentine, named Ralston Valentine. Ralston
Kilgore Trout now peeled strips and patches of plastic from his burning shins and feet
Kilgore Trout probably couldn't have made his trip from New York City in the time I
Kilgore Trout took a leak in the men's room of the New York City movie house. There
Kilgore Trout turned away. He hastened anxiously back toward the hospital. I called
Kilgore Trout was a famous made-up person in my books. Jimmy Valentine in the other
Kilgore Trout was among those who got out. He learned from others that the new
Kilgore Trout was far away, but he was steadily closing the distance between himself
Kilgore Trout was only half a block from his Creator now, and slowing down. I worried
Kilgore Trout was released by the Police Department of the City of New York like a
Kilgore Trout was suddenly woozy with deja vu. The truck driver was reminding him
Kilgore Trout.
kind of a machine it was that made the drone. The building was a cheap old frame thing
kinds, or arrested for disorderly conduct, or burglarized, or socked in the nose and so
kitchen, and they dumped about thirty pounds of leftovers into a garbage can.
knew where he was. There was a familiar moat between the parking lot of the Inn and
knock over other bugs with shock waves. Word of Honor—I read about it in an article on
know what my eyes were like was confronted with his or her own twin reflections.
know who McLuhan is, but I know what it's like to spend the night with a lot of other dirty
know: I was making myself hideously uncomfortable by not narrowing my attention to
known as Martha was called. Martha was a full-sized General Motors transcontinental
known locally as "The Crossroads of America"
KURT VONNEGUT, JR.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
lady and me—we have a good time just horsing around with ourselves. What do we
Lancer had a very small brain, but he must have suspected from time to time, just as
language nobody spoke anymore, Out of Many, One: "E pluribus unum."
language. She had been encouraged to do a lot of that in school. Most white people in
larger cylinders.
last gleaming,
Later on, of course, Dwayne would assault all sorts of people, even three strangers
laundry for Dwayne's family for a few months, back when Dwayne was a little boy. She
laundry on Monday. Monday was simply washday, and not an especially depressing
laundry which used ordinary soap, did not fluoresce.
law in the United States of America. This was a recent innovation.
lazily ridiculed by a man from out-of-town.
lead through his toilet and a washbasin and a bathtub enclosure. There was a picture of
leading character in any novel or story by Kilgore Trout.
least bit nutty out of here. No telephone calls."
least not in any area where there was a chance that he might be criticized. He could not
least one of their eggs to another planet, where it might hatch, where an automobile
legislative, and judicial branches of the State Government, which drew their power from
legitimate businesses for their children and grandchildren. Through Fred's father, those
lemon oil.
LeSabre, came toward him leeringly, wearing a lettuce-green leotard, straw sandals, a
LeSabre, of course, was Dwayne's transvestite sales manager. "He said you'd
less worry for Dwayne.
lessons recorded on tape.
liberty all the literary characters who have served me so loyally during my writing career.
Libertyville, Georgia, had been The Barring-gaffner of Bagnialto, or This Year's
Libertyville?"
library hard. "This is the only book I haven't finished, and 111 finish it before the sun
life, as nearly as I can tell. You're not a freak. Dwayne Hoover's the freak! How many
like a lump of nose putty, staring at something long ago and far away.
like an electric sign.
Like everybody else in the cocktail lounge, he was softening his brain with alcohol.
like little babies from time to time." She was more than satisfied with this arrangement.
Like most science-fiction writers, Trout knew almost nothing about science, was
like that. A real rattlesnake looked like this:
like that. The child would suppose that the message was terrifically important, since
like the sound of it?"
like this, and tourists would come from far away to gaze at them:
like this:
like this:
like this:
like this:
liked to put so many arrows into him, was that he survived the incident. He actually got
Limited. When Dwayne first got the stock, in the depths of the Great Depression, the
limits and in the railroad yard." Dwayne's stepfather described the signs, which looked
line of his route started in the cocktail lounge, crossed the asphalt to Francine Pefko's
Lingo-Three was visited by space travelers, who learned that the creatures were
lips like sofa pillows and bright red hair. She adored Dwayne. She adored Hawaiian
Listen:
Listen: Dwayne Hoover hurt so many people seriously that a special ambulance
listening to West Virginia. He was told about health insurance for pennies a day, about
listening: "Keep the hell out of my body bag."
little animals would crawl up his asshole and eat up his wiring. That was one
Little Kago himself died long before the planet did. He was attempting to lecture on
lives on the continent in 1492. That was simply the year in which sea pirates
living as an installer of aluminum combination storm windows and screens. He had
living, as they say. She was an Indianapolis widow when I met her late in the Great
living, but I had also given him an iron will to live. This was a common combination on
livingroom draperies one morning. She had just been reading a biography of Albert
load of cement. He wanted to plug up the passage between the stream and the
lobby of the new Holiday Inn.
local hardware store. Policemen all had them. So did the criminals. So did the people
located for the dedication ceremonies.
long years ago.
long, and one and one-half inches in diameter when engorged with blood. Dwayne's
longer will Midland City be known merely as the home of Mary Alice Miller, the Women's
looked like a machine to me when I was a boy.
looked like miles and miles of bewilderingly beautiful jewelry to Wayne. He was seeing a
looked like this:
looked like this:
looked like this:
looked like, he was generally acknowledged to be one of the most effective sales
looked to the west, and he smiled at the rosy loveliness of the Mildred Barry Memorial
looking the way I do?"
lost himself in twinkling beads of lemon oil. He remembered now a thing his stepfather
lost in the mails was a son named Leo. "He's a man now," said Trout.
lot to a sweet, sort of sexy, middle-aged old Pontiac dealer like Dwayne.
Lottie Davis and Dwayne didn't talk much, even though they liked each other a lot.
loud printed in red capital letters. He was offered a plant which would attract and eat
loudly as he crossed the lobby of the new Holiday Inn, smiling and gesturing at people
lounge. I shrunk the Universe to a ball exactly one light-year in diameter. I had it explode.
lousy about my books. My friend Knox Burger said one time that a certain cumbersome
loved, and I broke it all the time. I promised him never to say I loved him.'"
lovers or pets. He had once been highly popular. When he was at Prairie Military
low-price car. It was a medium-price car.
lying down—unconscious, but moaning. Beatrice Keedsler was lying down, although
Lyle, "and save the Cathedral."
MacDonald's was one. Burger Chef was another. Dwayne Hoover, as has already been
machine, a filing machine.
machine, and your father was programmed to bawl her out for being a defective
machine.
machine. At least Bunny Hoover's mother taught him a trade. A good piano controller
machines, lying machines, funny machines, solemn machines," he read. "Their only
machines, we were flabby bags of ancient plumbing and wiring, of rusty hinges and
machines.
machines: It should be noted that people, mostly men, suffering from the last stages of
machines?" he said.
made for the party, and the guests got to take them home as souvenirs. There was a
made harshly beautiful laments, as though they were the voice boxes of mating or dying
made him the second most decorated veteran in Midland City. I put all his medals under
made him wonder automatically if anything bad was growing inside himself. Other
made into beds. Don was lying on his back, with his head well below window level,
made it illegal to erect anything taller than that, and it was called The George Hickman
made me the serene Earthling which I am this day.
made of metal and plastic. The plastic, incidentally, is a close relative of the gunk in
made out of rubber. He could slip it over the end of his real penis, according to the ad,
magazine. The theory behind the program was that many ex-convicts could not or
magazines and so on blowing all over town. If you wanted to start a library, you could
magazines devoted to the writing business, which he read avidly in the periodical rooms
Magic Fingers were electric vibrators attached to the mattress springs of a bed. If a
Mahal and then to Venice and then to Dar es Salaam and then to the surface of the
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, in exchange for a new handkerchief, a piece of fruit, a bunch
make a perfect pig of himself with pages and words.
make big money as factory workers in the First World War. Dwayne's real mother was a
make holes in human beings. It looked like this:
make me young, make me young!"
make our lives meaningless. They came close to success. They were cruel adversaries,
make Trout famous. This is what Trout had to say about that, with only his parakeet
males. The three white people had never been in Midland City before. They were on
man on a stool next to him at the table if he had worked in the coal mines.
man was good-looking and sexy, and he used to seduce ugly old women who had
man who had dropped an atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan, at the controls.
man who is terribly wounded—because he has dared to pass through the fires of truth
man who owns what's underneath."
man," he coaxed. He wanted nothing particular from Trout. Some part of his mind was
Man.
man." This meant that she was willing to agree about anything with Dwayne, to do
managers for Pontiac not only in the State, but in the entire Middle West. Pontiac was
mankind."
manufacture of a new sort of booby trap. A booby trap was an easily hidden explosive
manufactured, though. They reproduced. They laid eggs containing baby automobiles,
manufacturing a new anti-personnel bomb for the Air Force. The bomb scattered plastic
manufacturing airplanes and trucks. When they got to Midland City, they had their name
many years for the Royal Ornithological Society—guarding the only nesting place in the
many years to kill him with hatred. You will redirect your hatred. You will hate your
many years.
Marines. He sent a note to his father from boot camp. It said this: "I pity you. You've
Maritime Brothers Construction Company, for instance, were his uncles. Gino Maritime,
Maritimo Brothers Construction Company at night. Kazak's trainers, the people who
Maritimo was the only person in Midland City who knew anything about Kilgore Trout. It
market very intelligently and luckily over the years. He had bought one hundred shares
marshes and meadows of New Jersey. The truck was a General Motors Astro-95 Diesel
Mary Alice Miller's father was meanwhile continuing to learn conversational French
Mary Alice Miller's father, Don Miller, was in his car near Dwayne, waiting for Mary Alice
Mary Alice was also the Queen of the Festival of the Arts. The cover of the program
Mary Alice was smiling at a picture of Saint Sebastian, by the Spanish painter El
Mary Alice went into the lobby to get a crown and scepter for her performance as
Mary Alice's father, Don Miller, was, among other things, Chairman of the Parole
Mary or with any American blacks. He felt kinship only with Indaros.
masochism. He wanted to be treated like a cockroach.
Masterpiece, by Kilgore Trout.
matched one syllable \with each two beats in his heart. He closed his eyes. He became
materials, which was supposed to make his smile look brighter in daylight. He grinned
materials. The idea was to make clothes look brighter in sunlight by making them
matter much what most people in Midland City said out loud, except when they were
mattresses and chicken wire, so Kazak could not kill him. Kazak tried and tried. There
may befall us. A sacred picture of Saint Anthony alone is one vertical, unwavering band
may I say."
may she rest in peace. They both flatly refused to do Nigger work.
Maybe Mr. Hoover sick today." And so on.
me a Johnny Walker Rob Roy," she called, "and a Southern Comfort on the rocks, and
me and leave me for dead. You ask people around here and they'll tell you: this whole
me by and by. And I mooned philosophically at the murky battlements of the old
me out of the woods."
me to the Quality Motor Court at Shepherdstown."
meal of petroleum and coal products at fancy prices.
meant for me to work for you."
measure for you. That's God, not man. Just about the time we got our rivers cleaned up,
meat, biscuits, butter, vegetables, mashed potatoes and gravy, fruit, candy, cake, pie.
Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, and a Purple Heart with two Oak-Leaf Clusters, which
Meditation. He learned this technique from Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who once stopped
meeting, he became one of the most beloved and respected human beings in history.
Men were supposed to pay more attention to the clitoris, and Dwayne had been
men, they work so hard. You want to sleep for a while?"
mentally diseased, that he had been cured by a simple change of residence, by a good
merely Governor. Because of the peculiar laws in that part of the planet, Rockefeller
message did not have to jostle and shriek for attention. It was practically the only
message on a five-hundred-pound bomb which was going to be dropped on Hamburg,
message to his molecules: "For reasons obvious to us all, this galaxy is dissolved!"
messages were so loud and exciting. It was their noise that thrilled him. He didn't care
Miasma was standing with his back to the door of the ladies' toilet on the emergency
Midland City be without Shepherdstown? And what would Shepherdstown be without
Midland City named Hoobler.
Midland City stretch of the Interstate?"
Midland City was outraged. So was I.
Midland City were insecure when they spoke, so they kept their sentences short and
Midland City who could afford to hire Niggers to do the Nigger work during the Great
Midland City's Skid Row, which was the neighborhood of the once fashionable Fairchild
Midland City. The person closest to him, Francine Pefko, his white secretary and
Midland City?"
Midland County Merchants Bank foreclosed on the mortgage. And then Dwayne's
Midland County National Bank. For collateral, he put up stock he owned in a company
might now be having a look at what had become of the United States of America so far,
million dollars or more. Rosewater said the Festival could have the picture on one
millionaires to make poor people feel stupid. I thought Beatrice Keedsler had joined
millions of human beings stopped butchering one another. I have talked to old men who
millions. The people were delivered by railroad trains.
Milo came from behind his desk. He brought with him what appeared to be a lopsided
Milo closed his olive eyes tight, wincing with a tangy agony. "It's time. Oh God, Mr.
Milo Maritimo greeted Trout with luminous adoration. "Mr. Trout," he said in rapture,
Milo now said what the master of ceremonies would have said to Trout, if Trout had
Milo now used a line from a television show which had been popular a few years
Milo's first cousin once removed, was the dope king of the city.
minerals underneath the surface, as well. He owned or controlled more of the planet
mines."
miracle insulating material developed for use on rockets to the Moon.
miraculous insulating qualities.
misinformed. "Let me tell you, Kilgore—" he hesitated. "That's your name, right?"
mistook him for a kitchen match. He killed Kago by trying to strike him repeatedly on the
mistress, said that Dwayne seemed to be getting happier and happier all the time during
moderately well-to-do. Blue Sunoco was a brand of gasoline.
moderation, two a day, in order not to feel blue.
modern art.
mom."
Mommy.
money for so little work. He was amused.
money he had put in a bank.
money her husband had lost in the car wash in Shepherdstown, and she ached to have
money, and then he and the woman he really loved would kill the women for their
money. The woman he really loved was young, but she certainly wasn't pretty in the
moonlight."
more harbored sacredness than did a Pontiac, a mousetrap, or a South Bend Lathe.
more poignant, since it mentioned two nations which no longer existed as such. "I see
Most distracting to Trout, however, were the illustrations his publishers selected,
Most mammals were senile or dead by the time they were seventeen. But Patty was a
Most other countries didn't have doodley-squat. Many of them weren't even
mother ate Drano. My mother ate sleeping pills, which wasn't nearly as horrible.
mother's and father's sides of his family when he was only six years old. As he sat in the
motto of the school, a motto he used to have to shout about a hundred times a day—at
motto—for old time's sake. The motto was this:
mourned especially when the last beaver died.
Moves on: nor all your Piety nor Wit
movie theater in New York City. It was much cheaper than a night in a hotel. Trout had
much attention to it. This did not surprise him. The things he had read about the clitoris
much black people liked fried chicken," she said.
Much of the conversation in the country consisted of lines from television shows, both
much uglier vocabularies and sentence structures all the time, which would resist being
mud. Dwayne asked a white workman how many horsepower drove the machine. All
munched them raw.
museums full of paintings all over the place, and the government used a kind of roulette
muttered to his parakeet about the end of the world.
My adrenal gland gave me a shot of adrenaline, too. I turned purple as my blood
My doorbell has just rung in my New York apartment. And I know what I will find
My eyes told my mind about him.
my father put on when he was an old, old man. It had a greenish patina of mold. Some
my fucking dog."
my God—" she said, "what's the matter now?"
my hand."
My mind sent a message to my hypothalamus, told it to release the hormone CRF
My mother stayed far, far away, because she had left me a legacy of suicide.
My mother was, too.
My own mother wrecked her brains with chemicals, which were supposed to make
My own shirt, being an old one which had been washed many times in a Chinese
My penis was three inches long and five inches in diameter. Its diameter was a
my tabletop, scrawled the symbols for the interrelationship between matter and energy
my tale.
My windows were rolled down, and I called this to him: "Whoa! Whoa! Mr. Trout!
myself acknowledged, before I die, as the great artist I believe myself to be."
myself for the very different sorts of years to come. Under similar spiritual conditions,
myself or about any human being, that we were all machines, doomed to collide and
mystified by the idiot decisions made by my countrymen. And then I had come suddenly
name of Kilgore Trout. Here was the letter:
name. The nameplate looked like this:
name:
named after George Washington Carver, a black man who was born into slavery, but
nastiness to pitiful dependency. He apologized to her for ever thinking that she wanted
national average. His income and the value of his life insurance policies at maturity
national averages for this and that. An advertising agency on another planet had a suc
near the front of the store. They were underpants magazines.
necessarily a hint of derangement, either—especially since Dwayne owned a piece of
neck. The medal looked like this:
need a kid for?"
need to see."
neighbors believed.
neither one could stand to have her picture taken. They were usually fine in the daytime.
Neither one of them was a veteran.
never allowed you to feel before. I want you to raise your eyes, to look at what I have in
never asked you to do before. Promise me you'll say yes."
never discussed what kind of a funeral you want, Bill. You never even told me what your
never done it before, but he knew sleeping in movie houses was the sort of thing really
never made love in the afternoon before," said Francine.
never showing her anger about anything there in the cocktail lounge. The largest part of
new Holiday Inn—because of a fatal accident on Exit 10A. Drivers and passengers got
new invention.
new wisdom, which would never have been his had he remained in his basement in
New York might keep to a certain few streets in Manhattan and stand a fair chance of
Newbolt Simmons' most recent Christmas card to Dwayne looked like this:
newspapers and soot.
Next came a familiar resilient steel barrier which prevented cars and trucks from
Nigeria, and Khash-drahr Miasma, from the infant nation of Bangladesh. Both were
Nigger part of town. A Nigger was a human being who was black.
Niggers in Shepherdstown.
Niggers in Shepherdstown.
night's sleep.
night, it resembled a rising harvest moon.
night, with high fences and alarms, and with prowling dogs. They were killing machines.
night.
night. Arise, Mr. Trout, you are free, you are free."
nine children.
no idea what that was—or a Manhattan or a brandy Alexander or a sloe gin fizz. "Give
no matter what. Bonnie had only two goals in life now. She meant to recoup all the
no money for any form of transportation, so he set out on foot. He began the five mile
no way of telling other dogs how friendly he was. He had to fight all the time. His ears
Nobody but Harry's wife knew his secret.
Nobody knew why we didn't fall off, even though everybody pretended to kind of understand
Nobody saw him playing basketball. He was screened from his neighbors by trees
Nobody saw or heard anything. Nobody lived in the area. A policeman was supposed
nobody was able to repair.
noiselessly.
Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it.
nostalgia and lover's nuts.
not breathe.
not eat her because of her unusually large head. They thought what she had thought
Not even the President of the United States knew what that was all about. It was as
not for what his money could buy. He thought Francine was hinting that he should buy
not only for the prison and the County Hospital. It sold its products to the outside world,
not only harmless but invisible. The world had paid so little attention to him that he
not only in shoes and socks, but in clear plastic, too. They could not sweat, they could
nothing he should feel guilty about.
nothing to do but read my toilet paper. I can still remember one of the stories I read."
nothing to do with the sales end of the business—because he had no charm. Charm
nothing to do with Trout or me: "Goodbye, Blue Monday."
nourishing feelings about Dwayne Hoover, for instance, and about Dr. Cyprian
novel ". . . read as though it had been written by Philboyd Studge." That's who I think I
novelist, had been born. They had as many as twenty servants working there, all at one
Now her sort of impoliteness is fashionable. But nobody believes anymore in a new
now I drew a symbol in vanishing mist which was bitterly familiar to Dwayne but not to
now mature.
now patted the top of his desk softly. This was somehow more menacing than if he had
now refused even to find some shears.
Now the heat was all gone, too—into outer space, Trout supposed. It had boiled
now the only animals left on Earth, I confess, seems a confusing sort of victory. Those
Now Trout was beginning to catch on that he was sitting very close to the person who
now, and he appeared to have a mouthful of little
now, pulled him away from Bunny. This increased Dwayne's glee. "Never hit a woman,
now. I'll stop saying it from now on. I beg your pardon. I did not mean to give offense."
now. When some tanker accidently dumps its load in the ocean, and kills millions of
number, and even as Dwayne and Wayne and Karabekian and Beatrice Keedsler and
O'er the land of the free and the home
O'er the ramparts we watched were so
O, say can you see by the dawn's early light
O, say does that star-spangled banner
O.K.?"
occasion, the Creator of the Universe had patched him up and got him going again.
occasionally. He was a messenger and an investigator for the Creator of the Universe.
October before the sun goes down?" He hauled lip his pants legs so that his
of a doctor back during the Great Depression. The bones of its right hand mingled with
of a man who had had the courage and imagination to make human slavery against the
of a young black man named Payton Brown, who, at the age of fifteen and a half,
of all elements, which was gold.
Of all the creatures in the Universe, only Dwayne was thinking and feeling and worrying
of another truck. This was it:
of Beatrice Keedsler; appeared one summer night in 1926 with a Springfield rifle. He
of candy made from the blood of trees.
of destroying the new Holiday Inn with footfalls. He did not fear for his own Me, Trout's
of embarrassing the Festival to death. He had come all this distance for an orgy of
of every year. He was the first automobile dealer in his part of the State to offer his
of floating, crashing, grinding slabs was more than a theory. They could prove it was
of flowers, and thirty-five dollars, taught Bunny to close his eyes, and to say this
of General Motors put out a model called the Le Sabre. "You can't help that." Dwayne
of hearing that she was becoming unhappier with each passing day. She would hint that
of his work. "I mean," he said, "you get men working together day after day, putting up
of illness made itself known. It was incipient echolalia. Dwayne found himself wanting to
of it, actually."
of it. His mind was swamped with mysteries. He might as well have been Wayne
of life on that once peaceful and moist and nourishing blue-green ball was dying or
of light. If a cockroach were near him, or a cocktail waitress, the picture would show two
of me. Gravity slammed him down on concrete. Kazak was knocked silly.
of my childhood. I put him in a circus crowd there. I had him see a man with locomotor
of public libraries. He thus got in touch with a firm called World Classics Library, which
of sex," she said, "he married a woman who had never heard of the subject, who was
of the box was a simple switch. It looked like this:
of the brave?
of the Creator of the Universe,
of the growths it supported resembled patches of fine rabbit fur. 'This will do nicely for
of the manila envelope which had been waiting for him in his suite.
of the new type of booby trap was that it could not be smelled by dogs. Various armies
of the people on top of the ground don't amount to nothing compared to the rights of the
of the planet itself. The Creator programmed robots to abuse it for millions of years, so it
of the planet:
of the premise of a book he hadn't thought about for years. The driver's toilet paper in
of the Robo-Magic itself was its brain, which had told the rest of the machine when to let
of the surface and the people of West Virginia.
of the United Nations, if he feared the future. He would give this reply:
of the unused lobes of his mind. This phosphorescent scarf floated by:
of the water.
of these brushed the cheek of Dwayne Hoover, nine miles away.
of this event in the main corridor of the school. Several white people were stopping
of trampoline.
of war, his rank, and the date of his capture.
of wealth and so on. A lot of people were like Dwayne: they created chemicals
of what was going on in the cocktail lounge. The candles puzzled him, for
of Xerox, for instance, for eight dollars a share. With the passage of time, his shares
of you familiar with the nature of my earlier published works will understand why I
off a mountain.
off in Midland City during a world-wide lecture tour.
Offenders' Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution. Bonnie had to work as a waitress
offer his sympathy to Beatrice Keedsler and Kilgore Trout. Trout could not be found
office in his automobile agency, doubled back to the new Holiday Inn again, then
office. They looked so much alike that Dwayne had not been able to tell them apart until
off—and fucking cows in the prison dairy, all events in a normal sex Me on the planet,
often: It was a convenient literary device for ending short stories and books.
old men in a movie theater in New York City. Could we talk about that?"
old softball, swaddled in many different sorts of tape. "When I couldn't find out anything
older and happier and happier, and all his hair fell out everywhere, he came to look like
olives can be. He was a graduate of the Cornell Hotel School. He was the homosexual
olives. It picked him up at the mouth of the Lincoln Tunnel, which was named in honor
on account of well never have to do business, you and me: Kilgore, how long will that
on an installation."
on and on just as I have indicated them—with an abbreviation which means sameness
on display.
on doing that. She wrote a sane and funny advice-to-the-lovelorn column for the Indianapolis
On each table was a bowl of dry-roasted peanuts, too, and a sign which allowed the
on gazing down from niches in the walls inside.
on his shoulder. The man who had fed him now told him to leave.
on his way to an arts festival. Trout understood that honest working people had no use
on in the country, and women were demanding that men pay more attention to women's
on Route 53, across from the entrance to Pioneer Village State Park.
on the candy machine. And when Trout looked through them to see what was going on
on the inside of his skull. This is what it looked like:
on the planet already, and new ones were coming into being almost every hour. There
on the planet in the book by Kilgore Trout. By this time, the Earthlings hadn't just
on the rim of a bomb crater, as anyone could see. But his head no longer sheltered
On the virgin planet, The Man was Adam and the sea was Eve.
on the West Coast of Africa, a man named Ojumwa. The Indaros sold him for a musket
on their coffee tables or their livingroom end tables or on what-not shelves—and such
on Wheels was the greatest novel in the English language, and that Trout should be
on Wheels. The publisher didn't change the title, but he obliterated most of it and all of
on which Sacred Miracle Cave was discovered, that his ancestors had called it "Bluebird
on, how easy you think it would be for me to get laid while I was there—a stranger,
on.
on. But new chemicals were coming onto the market all the time. Twenty feet away from
on: "Why me?"
once devoted to gold and to underpants."
once every two hundred million years. It contained about one hundred billion stars.
Once I understood what was making America such a dangerous, unhappy nation of
one another, are out of proportion with life as it really is outside my head.
one condition: that the first Robo-Magic and the early posters which advertised it be put
one ear.
One force, surely, was the lust for money which infested so many people in the
one joint of the right index finger of Kilgore Trout.
One mask looked like this:
One of Fred's ads was on a billboard outside the main gate of the defunct Keedsler
One of the first things Dwayne learned in school as a little boy, in fact, was a poem
one of the Hawaiian Islands. It was widely believed to be a paradise.
One of them was a science-fiction writer named Kilgore Trout. He was a nobody at
One of them was this: he wasn't really there. He was able to absent himself from the
One of them, Jose Mendoza, was a fairly good painter. So he painted the emblem of
one with the broken nose. As babies in crib, Dwayne remembered now, they used to
one-eighth inches in diameter.
one-room apartment fourteen feet wide and twenty-six feet long, and six flights of stairs
Only Dwayne Hoover had free will.
Only one person noticed her sufficiently to comment out loud. He was Abe Cohen,
only one who has to figure out what to do next—and why. Everybody else is a robot, a
only picture he had ever painted. He took it to the Barring-gaffner, who numbered it and
only significant surface water within eight miles of Midland City.
only six inches tall.
only ugly things to do. They didn't own doodley-squat, so they couldn't improve their
only with a microscope. The victims' vertebrae were welded together after the corkscrews
only: that you be amazed. They have committed every possible atrocity and every
open yet, without experiencing anything strange. But when he stepped out of the side
opened, there were already young black people wearing jackets which looked like this
opening of the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts in Midland City.
opinion a vain and weak and trashy man, no artist at all. But it is Rabo Karabekian who
or selling some damn thing. They were like lullabies to Dwayne.
or some gasket blew. At any rate, I also retracted my testicles into my abdominal cavity,
or the plumbing of a stubborn human being, even when he was far, far away.
or were eaten clear through. Switches along the way were welded open or shut.
or whatever the situation called for, and the criminals usually would. Sometimes they
order to keep abreast of the competition.
organizing his novels from Maxwell Perkins, his editor at Charles Scribner's Sons. I
orgasms do you think he has a month?"
orthodontist, Dr. Alfred Maritimo, and Bill Miller, who was Chairman of the Parole Board
other distinguished visitors a deeper sense of participation in the life of our community, I
other fighting men, and the armed forces didn't want to put up with such love affairs.
Other papers copied the story, rewrote it some. They all hung onto the joke about
other people to have some fun, too.
other quite well, since Dwayne had once sold Breedlove a new Pontiac Venture, which
Other students taught it to him. This was it:
other things, that silver iodide can sometimes make it snow or rain. This is Mr.
other universe, would you?"
Others couldn't get their hands on doodley-squat.
our hands. We didn't even know who our great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers
our lives on the line every day, when the agency was down on Jefferson Street. We got
our wish that you feel like a member of our family while you are here. To give you and
out into the water and bob offshore.
out later to be a broken toe. Somebody jumped backwards to get out of Dwayne's way.
out of fuel and dropping dead, while waiting around to test the only free-willed creature
out of metal were cheaper and more reliable, and required simpler homes.
out of their cars—to stretch their legs and find out, if they could, what the trouble was up
out onto her patio, where she laid it gently on a form of artificial grass known as Astroturf.
out to him, but that only made him walk faster.
out-of-doors. He knew of death by exposure because the papery voice of the little radio
out. The Bannister had been turned into a cut-rate furniture store.
outside doorknob. It looked like this:
outside their house. They couldn't believe how nice their house looked after the
over him. The Man himself got to decide what he was going to do next—and why. After
over the new Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts one night. The next morning,
over the surface of Sugar Creek when he heard that.
over to the concrete trough by the Interstate, and he spat Kilgore Trout's fingertip into
overweight like so many people in the country. He was obviously a happy man. He
own for the picture.
own Holiday Inn in the Middle West.
own mortality, as a lot of people did. He found an x-ray room, which wasn't in use. It
own red GTO. GTO stood for Gran Turismo Omologato. She had a sticker on her
painted on them.
painted this sign in bright yellow on his trunk lid and on both doors:
painted wood.
painter.
painters, too. His only living sibling is a distinguished physicist who discovered, among
paintings in the world.
palette of excrement and alcohol.
palm tree was growing out of the showroom floor. Dwayne's bad chemicals made him
pants.
parakeet haggardly, and he rolled his eyes: "Why all this sudden interest in Kilgore
parents must be friends of the Chairman of the Arts Festival, and they don't know
parking lot of George Hickman Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse out at the County
parolee. "Welcome to the real world, Brother," he said gently and with wry lovingness to
part in the orgy, too.
part of each ad was the statement of some sort of average—the average number of
participants in the Festival, which would last for five days. It would celebrate the
particularly since his responses were going to be anything I said they were.
parts in an attempt to mollify Breedlove. But Breedlove was inconsolable, and he finally
parts of the Bible out loud to them, or whatever they wanted to do, and he had to keep a
parts of the world which were famous from time to time for having the food run out. Both
passed not many hours before.
passenger in a Ford Galaxie. The man at the controls of the Galaxie was a traveling
past year, he had averaged twenty-two orgasms per month. This was far above the
Patty Keene actually imagined Dwayne's waving a magic wand at her troubles and
Patty Keene hadn't heard the big news yet. Neither had Dwayne. Neither had Kilgore
Patty Keene, the waitress in Dwayne's Burger Chef out on Crestview Avenue, in the
Patty Keene. Her hair was yellow. Her eyes were blue. She was very old for a mammal.
paused in his trudge to examine himself in the rearview mirror, the rearview leak, of a
pay exactly the right amount of attention to Francine's clitoris.
paying a lot more attention to Francine's, to the point where she said he was paying too
peanuts.
pear wasn't the main event of the evening anyway. It was a short subject, which gave
pellets instead of steel pellets, because the plastic pellets were cheaper. They were
pen. To give an idea of the maturity of my illustrations for this book, here is my
penises squirted jism into Turkish towels.
people anymore—except for the gangsters who sold the black people used cars and
people around, so they made their first civilian friends. And Francine took a job with
People called it "the beetle." A real beetle looked like this:
people could understand it, but this is what it said:
people had wondered exactly the same thing when they passed that room.
people in Midland City put useless objects from Hawaii or Mexico or someplace like that
people invented in story books. This was the reason Americans shot each other so
People like that would be treated with disgust in other neighborhoods, and policemen
people there had been flung to the earth by the force of gravity, which never relaxed for
people usually would. And policemen would point their guns at criminals and say, "Stop"
people went on fucking all the time.
people were in the car, their ages, their sexes, the colors of their skins, their manners of
people were scared to go anywhere on Jefferson Street any more.
people were thi nking, and then they thought that, too.
people who didn't have any friends or relatives or property or usefulness or ambition
People who had horrible jobs during the week used to call Monday "Blue Monday"
people who had nothing to do with real life, I resolved to shun storytelling. I would write
people, about how they never seemed to be able to get to work on time. He mentioned
people, and they know you, because it's the same streets for you, day after day. You
people, and, in the story, Trout had those people decide to exercise their property rights
perfume in the disinfectant and roach-killer the motel used.
permanently inflamed. They looked like maraschino cherries.
person in Midland City that day. We had no sense of anybody else using our eyes—or
person stopped living up to expectations, because of bad chemicals or one thing or
person who might overhear.
persons were recovering or failing to recover from injuries of all kinds. Many of the
pessimism.
philosopher happened to belong to. It called for an autocratic, centralized government,
phine by Cyprian Ukwende.
Photographs of women's underpants weren't worth the paper they were printed on,
piano in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn.
piano player in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn. He was poor. He lived alone
picking up a bracelet which I had pitched back there for him to find.
picture of a little bear on each one, and the date of the party. Underneath the picture
picture of an asshole:
picture which any five-year-old can paint? Two unwavering bands of light."
pirates arrived were copper-colored. When slavery was introduced onto the continent,
pirates eventually created a government which became a beacon of freedom to human
place for more than forty years. It contained toys from childhood, the bones of a
place to be. The whole city was dangerous—because of chemicals and the uneven distribution
place to live. The Midland County General Hospital was footing his bills at the Inn while
place where he had a wife and two kids, he said. They didn't know he ran a theater
places were specifically mentioned, in fact, in Now It Can Be Told, by Kilgore Trout.
plan which was superior to every retirement plan in the city with the exception of the one
planet, that some terrible mistake had been made. It might have comforted them some if
plastic molecule:
plates.
pleasant afternoon of idleness, and a balloon was coming out of her mouth. These were
please."
pleasure during sexual intercourse, and not just think of themselves. The key to their
pleasure in your radio advertising, too," the parolee said. During the last year in prison,
pleasure, they said, and scientists backed them up, was the clitoris, a tiny meat cylinder
plenty to choose among. He had them kill each other by the millions, for this purpose
plus a kitchen and a bathroom and an operating room. It had enough food and medical
PLUTO BANDITS
Pluto, spoke knowingly of The Pluto Gang. And reporters asked police for any new
poems and plays about people long ago and far away, such as Ivanhoe.
pointed in the direction of the cave and said how far away it was—for example:
pointed to a mirror on a cigarette machine. "You call that a leak?"
poisoned by great sins our nation has committed, such as slavery and genocide and
police station, where he was questioned. All he could say was that he had been
polishing a maroon 1970 Buick Skylark convertible with a rag. The man wasn't dressed
pollution, except for humanoids. The humanoids ate food made from petroleum and
polymer in which the Earth is wrapped so tightly, should be that same abbreviation,
pornography shops and a shirt store. He had bought two of his own books, Plague on
pornography stores there. He had no copies at home. He despised them, but now he
possible kindness unfeelingly, automatically, inevitably, to get a reaction from Y-O-U."
potassium nitrate and sulphur only inches from his brains. He had only to trip a lever,
pounded the desk with his fist. "But there are a hell of a lot of things you can change,
pounds of olives to Tulsa, Oklahoma.
powerless, and in debt. She said this to Dwayne:
precedent in medical history. It may have happened because some wire short-circuited
Preface
presence of the supernatural. And she knew enough about Midland City and herself to
present and past. The show Milo's line was from consisted of taking some old person,
President of the United States sewed to the breast pocket. It looked like this:
President of the United States.
pressure skyrocketed. The adrenaline made my heart go like a burglar alarm. It also
Pretty soon, Delmore was having several babies a day, and inviting his neighbors to
prisoners were black. "Is it true," she said, "that nobody ever escaped from there?"
prize.
probably have been saved.
probably the story of my life: not enough determination."
problem: his brains, where the instructions to his legs originated, were being eaten alive
problems with the money and power he had. He could give her a fine house and new
products, catfood, pop—"
professor being undressed by a group of naked sorority girls. A library tower could be
Professor Walter H. Stockmayer of Dartmouth College. He is a distinguished physical
profit. "People get all enthusiastic about getting back in shape or losing some pounds,"
progenitors could look, if they wished to.
PROGRESS IS OUR MOST IMPORTANT PRODUCT
published hard-core pornography in Los Angeles, California. They used his stories,
publisher had ever heard of him, for that matter, even though he had written one
pulled at another switch, and it came away in my hand. It was a cigarette lighter. So I
pulled them into my fuselage like the landing gear of an airplane. And now they tell me
purple velvet sheet over his head. He was well-to-do. He had invested in the stock
purpose is to stir you up in every conceivable way, so the Creator of the Universe can
put holes in his mother and father because he didn't want to show them the bad report
put it in a warehouse crammed with works of art.
put me on Earth for-to find out how much a man could take without breaking."
put them out of business somehow, but without interfering with free speech.
Pyramid Trucking Company.
Queen at the Arts Festival banquet that night. Milo Maritime, the desk clerk, the
Queen of the Arts Festival, now passed through the cocktail lounge. She made a
quickly they had demolished it—for heat.
quietly. He clasped his hands behind his back and placed his feet apart. He assumed
Rabo Karabekian and Beatrice Keedsler and Bonnie MacMahon all grabbed Dwayne
Rabo Karabekian and Beatrice Keedsler did not see him come in. They were
Rabo Karabekian thought this over, and then he said loudly, so a lot of people could
radiant eye on top of it, like this:
radioing that number into outer space. The idea was to show other inhabited planets, in
railing and a concrete terrace outside—and then Route 103, and then the wall and the
rambled on about all the black people he had hired when nobody else would hire black
ranch houses on either side of the gift shop which sheltered the entrance to the
rational when prosperity came.
rattlesnake now. It was his bad chemicals, of course, which were compelling him to look
reaction to the fundamentally unfriendly cloud. Elgin Washington had just sniffed
reactions seething inside. When I was a boy, I saw a lot of people with goiters. So did
read the editorials against my painting in your wonderful newspaper. I have read every
read the message on the side of it phonetically. The message told Wayne that the truck
reading the classified ads in the Midland City Bugle-Observer. He needed a cheap
Real Chinamen often mistook him for a real Chinaman.
real life—in the death house of a penitentiary in Arkansas.
really meaning to. It was not in his nature to let one go without making him feel hi some
really were. There was only one way for the Earth to be, he thought: the way it was.
rear, just ahead of the engine compartment. Eddie Key was in the driver's seat, and he
rearranging what was left of itself in conformity with the laws of gravity. It was collapsing
reasonable."
received it two months before. He still hadn't thrown it away.
recognizable. They were black. They were suddenly free to go exploring.
recommended by Eliot Rosewater," he said, "who assures me that you are perhaps the
refrigerators.
Regional Class High School Basketball Playoffs.
registration in full. Dwayne, for his part, apologized for not knowing what the number of
Reindeer was their code word for the black maid, who was far away in the kitchen at the
relative of felons operating in Midland City at the present time. The partners in the
relative to the planet wasn't even as thick as the skin of an apple. Beyond that lay an allbut-perfect
reliable machine to sell. And he was one of the few persons in Midland City who could
religion is." And so on.
remained homeless, too, until the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts went up.
remover which had gone on sale for the first time only the day before. He had also
rented from Avis with my Diners' Club card. I had a paper tube in my mouth. It was
repair. Sometimes I wrote badly, which meant I was a writing machine in bad repair. I no
repeat out loud whatever had just been said.
resemble Moby Dick, the Great White Whale. The bubbles would soon engulf Moby
respect was for that particular ad.
respectable even his jokes had become.
resting, staring at the ceiling. He was trying to learn French by means of listening to
restraining sheets that his reflection looked to Eddie like a bandaged thumb.
revealed himself as a revolting transvestite, and that he was fired on that account.
reverent about Kilgore Trout. He beseeched him to be one of several distinguished outof-town
revolved around the Earth, because it certainly looked that way.
Rican boys gathered together in the basement of an abandoned building. They were
richest and most powerful country on the planet. It had most of the food and minerals
ride in a demonstrator, when he watched a mechanic service a car. One day he sang
ride."
right . . . forget it... who could blame you?" And so on.
right words, either, but I hope you know what I mean."
right?"
right?" he said to the Creator of the Universe.
rise.
robot would have served as well. And Dwayne again carried on a wry talk with the
robots. They were fueled by rice.
Rock, and he begged Trout to give him an honest answer to this question: "From what
rolled him out of bed. They made him dress as though there were some sort of
rooftops of the Adult Correctional Institution beyond that
Room. The drapes were drawn at night. They were wide open now. They let the
room. The preparation was simple, since vegetables and fruits were all he ate, and he
Roses are red,
Rosewater Coal and Iron Company to treat them like human beings. They would fight
Rosewater food. I'd fight Rosewater, whatever Rosewater is, and Rosewater would beat
Rosewater. I dug holes for Rose-water in Rosewater. I lived in Rosewater houses. I ate
rubber vagina for when he was lonesome.
Sacred Miracle Cave.
saddlebags.
said Bonnie.
said Dwayne.
said Dwayne. "They sign up for the program, but then they lose interest in about a year,
said he was. But there was still something else he had to explain: What was he doing
said it out loud:
said this very quietly: "Still wavin', man."
said, owned franchises for several Burger Chefs.
said, that Harry had better put on some wild clothes for Hawaiian Week, or Dwayne
said.
said. His name was Andy Lieber. He was thirty-two. He was white. He was a good deal
salacious pictures.
sale on straw hats: "For prices like this, you can run them through your horse and put
Salem cigarettes and so on in the cans back there, as though he were a health
sales manager at the Pontiac agency, who was Harry LeSabre. A full week before
salesman for a device which engulfed the rear ends of trucks at loading docks. It was a
same!"
Sammy Davis, Jr., would sing and dance.
Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise would cost, which would be well over one
sausage into his mouth, watched him guzzle orange juice and milk. Trout marveled at
saw pineapples and ukuleles scattered everywhere.
saw. His mother imitated birds from various parts of what was still the British Empire.
sawdust and broken glass!"
say that, but that's a promise I can't help breaking all the time." The thing was: Dwayne
say, 'Hello,' and they say 'Hello,' back. You call them by name. They call you by name.
says, 'I am here, I am here, I am here."
School Basketball Play-offs. She never reported it to the police. She never reported it to
school drop-out, a Pontiac dealer, a gynecologist, a gas-conversion burner installer. If a
school, a meaning which had since eluded him. The symbol would have looked like the
Schweitzer, who believed that human beings should treat simpler animals lovingly. The
scientists set upholstery on fire, threw gravel at windshields, snapped crankshafts and
scoop out its internal organs —and then chop it into pieces and fry the pieces, and put
scouting than in any previous year. Dwayne told Wayne about his efforts to save the life
screamed at him and threw tennis balls at him at sundown. Then he turned him loose.
seat behind Eddie Key. Key asked him what was the matter with him, and Trout held up
seated at the piano bar who had been paid fifty thousand dollars for sticking a piece of
Second World War. It was installed on heavy bombers, and it did the actual dropping of
secret. He would have been ridiculed, if he had said its name out loud. It was such a
secretly become a Christian when Christianity was against the law.
see, that Fred T. Barry and his mother and father were almost the only people in
seemed to him that another day had passed on the virgin planet, and it was time to yell
seems to be getting behind the arts in a great big way."
seen death by exposure, had never been threatened by it, since he had so seldom been
seen in New York. There were still photographs taken from the movies, and these
seen through a window in the sorority house. It was daytime outside, and there was a
selling fried chicken.
selling Pontiacs—" Dwayne went on. He was referring to the fact that the Buick division
sent and received, were lined up symmetrically with his. I told him this over and over
sentences with "And" and "So," and end so many paragraphs with ". . . and so on."
separated them from Sugar Creek.
sequestered in state and national parks. In the third grade, little Dwayne scrawled an
servant light kindling. The kindling was under dry firewood—which was under the bull.
Service Department, to beg. Gloria Browning, the white cashier back there/to man her
serving as His eyes and ears and conscience: "Am headed for Forty-second Street now.
set up on cement blocks, and it was out in the middle of nowhere. Cars came and went,
settee. The entire lobby, except for the vending machines, was done in Spanish style.
seventy-two steps below, with the traffic whizzing by, or in a roasting pan his mistress
several old home appliances in the brook—stoves, a washing machine, a couple of
Sexual Offenders' Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown.
sexual orgies with strangers in New York City. He was only confused so far.
sexually excited even before the house lights went down. The women in his party
Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line
share his pride and happiness. He had mass baptisms of as many as a hundred babies
shatterproof windshield. He was lying dead now in the concrete trough containing Sugar
Shazzbutter.
She gazed at the tower of radio station WMCY, which Dwayne Hoover owned. It was
She had thirty-six-inch hips, a twenty-nine-inch waist, and a thirty-eight-inch bosom at
She honestly tried to live that way. She couldn't imagine anything better to do. So she
She led a normal female rabbit's life, despite her ballooning intellect. She concluded
she might have sat up. Her jaw was broken. Bunny Hoover was lying down. His
she said.
She spoke up bravely, to learn if supernatural assistance was possible in her case.
She thought about all the new and used cars Dwayne owned.
She was a brand-new adult, who was working in order to pay off the tremendous
She was a defective child-bearing machine. She destroyed herself automatically
She was rich, but she had gone to work every weekday of her adult life, so she went
She was unconscious, and the most seriously injured of all. And Dwayne went cantering
She was willing to do without it, expected to do without it—to work hard all her life, to
She went on imitating them for her own amusement, well into the Great Depression.
She would begin to tell Bunny what was so vile about Dwayne, but she always
She would talk bawdily to me and her sons, and to our girlfriends when we brought
She wrote ads for the William H. Block Company, a department store which still
shears," he said.
Shepherdstown part of Midland City, more or less?"
Shepherdstown.
Shepherdstown. And the main reason the car wash had failed was that successful car
Shepherdstown. Maybe they didn't see the sign. Maybe they couldn't read it. Maybe
Shepherdstown?"
shins of my father when he was an old, old man.
shooting cannonballs at it from inside.
shortcut to the lobby from the side parking lot, where her father was waiting for her in
Shortly after that, Dwayne's wife ate Drano and Robert was shipped home in a plastic
shot and killed five relatives, three servants, two policemen, and all the animals in the
should be the most massively defended secret under law.
should do with it next. But this much he has done correctly: He had delivered himself to
should have been flabbergasted to come so close to such a man. Rockefeller wasn't
should have pricked up his ears at that. That particular drink wasn't for any ordinary person.
should I contribute to overpopulation?"
should share it with others unless they really wanted to, and most of them didn't want to.
should talk to one of them. They don't think like other people."
showed her in a white bathing suit, with her Olympic Gold Medal hanging around her
shows everything about life which truly matters, with nothing left out. It is a picture of the
shuddered gently, as though he had a small motor which was idling inside. Here was his
side again, and the two of them chose a table near Dwayne Hoover and me. All he
sign off the Nigger mailbox, and he threw it into a ditch. Here is what it said:
sign which gave a childish name to the dream—like this:
sign:
signals in Dwayne's behavior, for ignoring his obvious cries for help. After Dwayne ran
signs like this:
silence of a safe-deposit box.
sing by moonlight." Then he did what almost every black person in Midland City would
sir, as you can see. I hear nothing but good things about you. I think the good Lord
sirens were blowing about last night, Durling?" and, "You're looking good today,
sixty-two-foot obelisk with a marble football on top.
size had a neighborhood with the same nickname: Skid Row. It was a place where
slaves had at one time used the cave after escaping to freedom across the Ohio River.
sleeping on the job.
sleepy and sticky afterwards, so he would dive into an icy stream that had just jumped
slowly brought him only part way up again. He was in a shallow, rubbery dimple.
slumping, open sack of radioactive diamonds.
small wars with the company's private police and the State Police and the National
small, but they were numerous and volatile. They wished to become frightening, in order
smiling as though everything was all right now. He wouldn't have to go to the electric
snoozed most of the time. The monsters I will name never snoozed. They inhabited our
So did Dwayne Hoover's shirt, and the shirts of several other men. The reason was
So did the bartender's jacket and the African masks on the walls.
So Dwayne backed away some, contented himself with preaching up at Wayne. He
So Dwayne called Francine Pefko on the telephone, even though she was only
So Dwayne held onto Don Breedlove with his right hand, and he smiled as though
So Dwayne Hoover now extended his right hand to Breedlove, and Breedlove without
so easily forgot: that people didn't have to be serious all the time.
So he had a look inside. "It was full of folks on roller-skates," he said. "They went
So he kicked a little dirt down into the cellar hole. He spat down into it. He stepped
So he sat down on a guardrail, removed his shoes and socks, rolled his pantlegs to
So he wandered outdoors, and he found himself among Dwayne's used cars again.
So he was getting really close to Dwayne Hoover. And, as though the Creator of the
So here was the new Harry now, rosy with fear and excitement. He felt uninhibited
So I jumped into my car and chased him. I was still high as a kite on adrenaline and
So I made the green telephone in back of the bar ring. Harold Newcomb Wilbur
So I will throw Veterans' Day over my shoulder. Armistice Day I will keep. I don't want
So it is a big temptation to me, when I create a character for a novel, to say that he is
so late at night. He said that the planet didn't have much use for engineers his age
So leaders in government and commerce, in order to function, had to invent new and
So Milo Marithno showed him to his suite, which was two ordinary Holiday Inn rooms
so much for wisdom as for friendliness. So they were doomed. Homicidal beggars could
so often cruel and ugly.
so on.
So Sacred Miracle Cave had become a part of the past.
So she spoke her very last words on the planet to Cyprian Ukwende. She did not have
So she went hippity-hop, hippity-hop toward the city, to have the tumor removed. But
so that the Government would do a better job of picking up the garbage and so on.
So the black machines had to get out of there, or starve to death. They came to cities
So the Earthlings infiltrated the ad agency which had the shazzbutter account, and
So the theater went dark and the curtains opened. At first there wasn't any picture.
So there the three of us were. Dwayne and Trout and I could have been included in
So there was a madness about wide-open beavers. There was also a madness about
So they ate.
So they did.
So they didn't have to.
so they filled up the spongy tissue of which Dwayne's penis was mainly composed, so
So when the radio told him, "You can always trust Dwayne," he echoed the last word.
So, driving out to the Quality Motor Court that day, Dwayne was hoping that he would
So, in the interests of survival, they trained themselves to be agreeing machines
sobered up, with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous. I had him use his new-found
sobriety, to explore, among other things, the supposed spiritual and physical benefits of
socks and garters and his mortarboard, which was a hat which looked like this:
solipsistic whimsey in ten minutes or so.
Some Americans were very good at grabbing and holding, were fabulously well-to-do.
Some of the words came through. "I thought of all the people who come out here to visit
Some poem!
some reason. So no jokes, no surprises. Keep everything simple. Keep anybody the
some sort of conversation about me, I think. The bartender took several anxious looks
somebody brand new. Francine," he said, and he dug his fingers into her soft arm, "I
somebody from the common people to have not one but two monuments in his honor,
somebody had gone to the trouble of writing it in letters so big.
somebody to do.
somebody would stop to put up a monument.
someplace, and they would offer to put holes in the pilot and co-pilot unless they flew
something about you, and that's it."
Something almost nobody knew about Saint Sebastian, incidentally, since painters
something important on March 19th, 1971.
something seemingly specific —The Pluto Gang. They bought new locks for their doors
something surprising when he climbed out of the icy pool. It was a game. The Creator of
Sometimes I wrote well about collisions, which meant I was a writing machine in good
Sometimes somebody would say in his presence, "Excuse me, I have to take a leak."
Sometimes they even stuffed bad chemicals up their assholes. Their assholes looked
sometimes when his father was drunk. It went like this:
sometimes, though, because they hated to return to work after a day of rest. When Fred
somewhere."
son of the Creator of the Universe had been killed on that hill thousands of years ago.
songs which had been popular in his youth, such as "The Old Lamp Lighter," and
sore eyes, Alfy," he'd say.
sort of mammal which developed very slowly, so the body she rode around in was only
souls. "Hey man—" he said. He showed a gold tooth. He winked an eye.
sound system and the films. There was a wire that led from the box to a plug in the wall.
sounded and looked to me like a human being sneezing in a blizzard of soap flakes.
special comfort features 1 We'll send FREE money-making kit so you can run your
species of darling little panda bears. He had devoted his life to this. Special plates were
speech.
spine of a roof—having ascended one slope.
spinster school teacher who wrote sentimental poetry and claimed to be descended
spirit, too. This is what I drew:
spiritual matrix of the cocktail lounge was in what I choose to call a pre-earthquake condition.
splendidly received. Everybody agreed now that Midland City had one of the greatest
split to a condominium on Maui and live for a change."
spoke about human slavery— not only black slaves, but white slaves, too. Dwayne regarded
sport. He had no intention of climbing up on the truck for another swing at Wayne. He
sports, buggery and Fascism. Buggery consisted of sticking one's penis in somebody
spotlight as he leaned against the backboard of the handball court and fumbled foolishly
spun around and around. He came out onto Union Avenue going backwards, jumped a
staff to refuse service to anyone who was inharmonious with the mood of the lounge.
stage, with an audience out front and television cameras hidden all around. There were
start fucking and sucking again.
starve to death. So he was showing Dwayne how hard a worker he was.
States of America, nineteen hundred and thirty-six years after the Son of God was born,
stations were asleep for the night, but Dwayne picked up a country music station in
staying at the Inn until he could find a suitable apartment.
steal a mirror."
Steam from water boiled by burning coal was sent raging through the whistles, which
steam when Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout and I were boys-when our fathers were
steel-belted radial tires for the front wheels of her automobile.
steering wheel. The Chevy's passenger was bleeding blood as he lay dead in Sugar
stepfather was hit by an automobile driven by a white man who had bought the farm. In
stepmother decided to do the laundry on Christmas Eve. She was bitter about the low
stern laws instead against the possession by unmarried persons of chicken soup.
stimulate Dwayne. Dwayne was a new type of creature being tested by the
stock of myself—and my only fan."
stood my hair on end. It also caused coagulants to pour into my bloodstream, so, in
stopped short. "You're too young to hear about such things," she'd say, even when
stopped talking about best friends after they got out of junior high school.
stories, Mr. Trout. He let me read them all." He held out the seeming baseball, which
story for the New York Post the next day, and he led off with the quotation from Trout.
strange animals in Diners' Club Magazine.
stranger was tampering with the privacy of his body bag. He put this question to his
strength and righteousness. He dared not use his full strength in merely walking, for fear
strip away the idiocy, the bars, the waiting electric chair, the uniform of the
strip. The Chevy's passenger hadn't used his seat belt. He had shot right through the
study of hocus-pocus from ancient times. They were bum poets as well.
stuffed animals and white men's early artifacts.
stuffed with leaves. I set it on fire. It was a soigné thing to do.
stump of his ring finger disinfected and trimmed and bandaged, he was told to go
stupid and ignorant, that he might, in fact, be a cunning spy for the Communists.
stupid to have to ask a question like that. "He liked the sound of it," he said. "Don't you
style Mason shoes to your friends. EVERYBODY goes for Mason shoes with their many
subscribed to a transvestite magazine.
substances which commonly clogged drains.
Such a small remark was able to have such thundering consequences because the
such an alarming business to the parakeet that he flew back to his cage and hopped
such an extravaganza that there was scarcely a robot anywhere who didn't have a part
such bands of light. Our awareness is all that is alive and maybe sacred in any of us.
Such bracelets were becoming popular. Each one bore the name of an actual prisoner
suck each other's thumbs.
sucked harmlessly on one another's soft apertures on the silver screen.
sudden had to go from fifty down to fifteen miles an hour. It made me mad. I had some
sugar and excreted alcohol. They killed themselves by destroying their own
Sugar Creek.
Sugar Creek. And at the core of the writing meat machine is something sacred, which is
suicide," he said.
suicide," she said, "so I might as well do anything anybody says—in the service of
Sultans Harem. Massage parlors were something new and exciting in New York. Men
Sun, where the flames could not consume him—and then back to Midland City again.
sung before. Now he did it loudly as he sat at his desk, when he took a customer for a
sunshine in.
super-ambulance, but what good is more information?
supplies aboard to serve as an independent little hospital for a week without help from
supposed he was dead.
supposed to squirt it up their assholes.
supposed without minding much that he might die of exposure that night. He had never
supposedly. Rosewater killed her the year after that.
surprised. They shouldn't be. He's human like anybody else."
surrounded by new affectionate friends at the piano bar. Karabekian's speech had been
surroundings. So they did their best to make their insides beautiful instead.
suspect it. Harry never talked about women's clothes to Dwayne. He had never entered
suspected that Harry was a transvestite. They concluded that Dwayne had no reason to
swallowed two pills which were intended to prevent contagious abortion in cattle, which
swam in her, but she was too soupy for an invigorating swim. She made her Adam feel
sweeping filth from between the seats. He was a middle-aged white man. "No more fun
swim when she was eight months old, and that he had made her swim at least four
swished through the air where his face had been.
symbol in town.
syphilis, from locomotor ataxia, were common spectacles in downtown Indianapolis and
system which would get rid of the waste. They knew the company was gangstercontrolled.
T. Barry made up the Robo-Magic motto as a young man, he pretended that Monday
T. Barry, the Chairman of the Festival, a timetable of events during the coming week—
tail. "So he has to fight all the time," she said.
takes it back.
talk of giving them very cheap dope, too—to keep them listless and cheerful, and
talking about money or structures or travel or machinery—or other measurable things.
talking for the two. Kyle hadn't said a thousand words since 1954.
tap dancing.
taught him that the Creator of the Universe wanted him to kill anything he could catch,
teachers of children in the United States of America wrote this date on blackboards
Technically, though, only the tombstone had been erected specifically for him. The
teeth.
telepathically: "I have good news for you."
telescoping tunnel of rubberized canvas, and it looked like this in action:
tell others in the Universe about how wonderful the automobile creatures had been.
tending children and dealing with filth.
tenth to a hundredth of what it was really worth.
Terrific forces were at work on our souls, but they could do no work, because
than air, until they came to rest in Skid Row, against the foundations of the old Fairchild
than anybody I know, so when he does have one like today, some people are hurt and
than it was to Dwayne, for instance, or to me, or to Kilgore Trout, or to almost any white
than many nations. This had been his destiny since infancy. He had been born into that
than one-millionth of an ounce of iodine every day.
Thank you," said Trout. Thus a temporary friendship was formed.
Thanksgiving Day. Thanksgiving Day was a holiday when everybody in the country was
Thanksgiving, a family of eleven had had Thanksgiving dinner served on the piano.
that aren't there," said Vernon.
That brain became the nerve center of the so-called "BLINC System" during the
that car may have been occupied by an intelligent gas from Pluto."
That drink was for the person who had created all Wayne's misery to date, who
that Dwayne Hoover could give a free-willed reaction to such a holocaust. The war was
that Dwayne was seeing an oil slick on Sugar Creek which had made rainbows forty
that everybody on the planet felt inferior to the majority in every respect.
that good news, Harry? And the State Legislature has just announced that it is no longer
that he had no children. "But I'm glad in a way, too," he went on. "I mean, why
that her mind was useless, that it was a sort of tumor, that it had no usefulness within
that his head was about the size of a piece of bee-bee shot.
that it catches fire about once a year. That used to make me sick, but I laugh about it
that only surgery will bring them down again.
that she was smiling, smiling, smiling, no matter how insulting Karabekian became. He
that the penis got hard and stiff—like a plugged-up garden hose.
that their entire city might be ridiculous. Now the worst had happened: Mary Alice Miller,
that they were hill people who inhabited slopes rising one inch for every mile that
that this was for travel expenses and an honorarium.
That was the last thing Trout remembered—seeing the Oldsmobile back there.
That was the last Trout heard from Leo, directly or indirectly, until he was visited by
That was the main reason the people in Midland City were so slow to detect insanity
That was the only other opening to the outside.
That was what he said when Ukwende told him a second time to find shears: "I want
that way.
that wide-open beavers, which were ten thousand times as common as real beavers,
that you are to blame for your father's disease. You will blame yourself for trying for so
that. This was Cyprian Ukwende, the Indaro, the physician from Nigeria, who was
The ad went on to say that superior and inferior people alike ate such and such
the airplane to someplace else.
the alleyway. The better rooms afforded views of Fairchild Park, where there had been
The animal was killed and ground up into little bits, then shaped into patties and fried,
The armed forces knew he was a homosexual, that he was certain to fall in love with
the Arts was a translucent sphere on stilts, and it was illuminated from the inside now—
The audience went wild.
The bad ideas were delivered to Dwayne by Kilgore Trout. Trout considered himself
the balloons, Hawaiians could go on inhabiting the islands without always sticking to
The bear was attempting to get a line on why The Man did what he did. He would
the best-selling automobile in the Midland City area, despite the fact that it was not a
The big topic of conversation was censorship. The cities were blighted with motion picture
the birds.
The blue whale, a sea mammal, had a penis ninety-six inches long and fourteen
the boiled eggs of his eyes peeled for the real Dwayne Hoover.
The book was in the form of a long letter from The Creator of the Universe to the
The book was in the form of a long letter from the Creator of the Universe to the only
the book which would turn Dwayne Hoover into a homocidal maniac, showed a college
the bowels of Sacred Miracle Cave was polluted by some sort of industrial waste which
The bracelet had cost me two dollars and a half. It was a way of expressing my pity
the branch library in his neighborhood. He reads about sixty pages of it, and then he
The brochure also offered him motion pictures such as the ones Kilgore Trout had
the bus boy.
the call of the Nightingale, much beloved by poets, is the fact that it will only sing by
the call of the Nightingale, much beloved by poets," he said, "is the fact that it will only
the camera focussed on his Adam's apple. His Adam's apple bobbed obscenely. He
The camera rarely strayed more than a foot from their glistening lips and their bobbing
the car to stretch my legs, which was another soigné thing to do. I was among factories
The Catholic high school in Midland City, in fact, was named in honor of Saint
the cell, and he read to himself. He heard Leroy moving around in his cell, but he didn't
the charmer had in mind.
The chief weapon of the sea pirates, however, was their capacity to astonish. Nobody
The chimpanzee wore a little blue blazer with brass buttons, and with the seal of the
the cocktail lounge. Wayne heard her call, "Gilbey's and quinine, with a twist." He had
the cocktail lounge—for Bunny and Beatrice Keedsler and Bonnie MacMahon.
the County Hospital, at the foot of Fairchild Boulevard, which was nine miles away. She
The craze spread. Black people who had never been near the Keedsler mansion
The Creator never knew what he was going to yell, since The Creator had no control
the Creator of the Universe had programmed them all to hide, as a joke.
The Creator of the Universe had put a rattle on its tail. The Creator had also given it
The Creator of the Universe had them invent hundreds of religions, so you would have
the Creator, wherever He was. He reported that the men's room had been clean as a
The CRF inspired my pituitary gland to dump the hormone ACTH into my
The demolition of West Virginia had taken place with the approval of the executive,
The dental program at Shepherdstown was excellent. So was the food.
the dishwasher had taken one in a spirit of levity. He had no use for works of art, except
The driver said he used to be a hunter and a fisherman, long ago. It broke his heart
The driver shrugged. "Somebody must have liked the sound of it," he said.
The driver sighed. "Yeah, God—" he said, and he despaired for himself, "that's
The driver wanted to talk about Perma-Stone, too, which was a competitive scheme.
The driver wanted Trout to have a rich social life so that he could enjoy it vicariously.
The driver was disappointed. "I assumed it would take two men to do the job."
The driver was thinking seriously of buying aluminum siding for his home in Little
The driver was upset by this. "You're kidding," he said.
The driver's answer was prompt. It was peevish, too, as though he thought Trout was
the echoes of their footsteps from the building facades.
the electric chair was a shame. I used to think war was a shame—and automobile
the elite white high school at the time. Sugar Creek High was a Nigger high school now.
The emblem consisted of a Greek goddess on an ornate chaise longue. She held a
The emergency room of the hospital was In the basement. After Kilgore Trout had the
THE END
the end of the Civil War. "The law says," he went on, "when a man owns something
The erection center caused the dorsal vein in his penis to tighten up, so blood could
the evenings," said Trout. "But tell me, Bill—what does one wear in Midland/ City in
the evils of the automobile in a bar in Detroit. But he was so tiny that nobody paid any
The expression "Breakfast of Champions" is a registered trademark of General Mills,
the eyes
The fan letter reached him in his basement in Cohoes. It was hand-written, and Trout
The Festival could give me a brand new viewpoint on life!" he said.
the few remaining free men in America," he said.
The few women he had had anything to do with weren't sufficiently experienced to know
The first person he went to was Eliot Rosewater, who owned an El Greco worth three
The first thing he examined was a letter from Fred T. Barry, the Chairman of the
the flag on a stick closer to the ground, then raising it up again.
the flame with my fingers. I had bought a pair of sunglasses at a Holiday Inn outside of
the front wheels of your car. Your cat will be killed by a motorcyclist named Headley
The Galaxie in which Kilgore Trout was a passenger was on the Interstate now, close
the grating over a storm sewer. It had to be there.
The heat was painful now. His feet were curling and twisting, begging to be plunged into
the highest rank possible, in his senior year.
the Holiday Inn, and gravely study the remains of club sandwiches and empty packs of
The humanoids told Don that if he went home with a whore, she would cook him a
The idea of the gadget was to allow people in a building to load or unload trucks
The idea was to kill it and pull out all its feathers, and cut off its head and feet and
The illustration for the story at this point showed two Chinese girls, seemingly
The illustrations for this book were murky photographs of several white women giving
the Inn.
The inside of Wayne's head lit up in recognition of that dream, lit up with an electric
The intern did not know her. He had been in Midland City for only a week. He wasn't
the Interstate, a concrete trough which the engineers had built to contain Sugar Creek.
the island of Manhattan from east to west in the company of Kleenex tissues and
the jeweler. He said this about Mary Alice, despising her sexlessness and innocence
the keys—and spit, and mucus.
the kitchen of the new Holiday Inn. "Best fucking machine in the State," he told the
the language kept turning into pure music, because the creatures there were so
The largest human penis in the world was sixteen and seven-eighths inches long and
The lenses were silvered, were mirrors to anyone looking my way. Anyone wanting to
The letter did not say so, but Mildred Barry was the late mother of the Chairman, the
The librarian asks him why he doesn't like it, and he says to her, "I already know
the lines in his face, and the fact that his wife had eaten Drano, and that his dog had to
the magazine was April, 1962. Trout found it by chance in a bin of tame old magazines
The man he met was an automobile dealer, a Pontiac dealer named Dwayne Hoover.
The man in control of the Galaxie also sold large spools for wire and cable and rope.
the manager if they would like to have some fun. They were cheerful and unafraid—
The manager reminded Trout of what the first man to set foot on the Moon had said:
The manager told of being in on the development of a miraculous insulating material,
The manager told Trout a little about what the planet looked like to him. It was a
the manager, who was also the ticket-taker and the bouncer and the janitor. He was
The marble football looked like this:
the Maritimo Brothers Construction Company, which was gangster-controlled, to build a
the marketplace.
the meanings of words were anymore.
The mechanical beetle was made by Germans. The real beetle was made by the
the melancholy task of measuring wingspreads of the corpses. These were the largest
the members of the audience time to settle down.
the message the owners of the rig saw fit to shriek at human beings wherever it went:
the Midland City area since he was nine years old. He was now twenty-six.
the Midland City Center for the Arts. He would make it grow by walking toward it. When
The Midland City Police Department, and the Midland County Sheriffs Department,
the Midland County National Bank.
The mirror showed the citizens the shape of the valley they lived in, demonstrated
The molecule went on and on and on, repeating itself forever to form a sheet both
the month before Dwayne went public as a maniac.
the mouth and the asshole, and being fucked in the mouth and the asshole, and jerking
the mouth of the bull. Heliogabalus would have guests in for a nice party, with plenty of
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,
The name of the company kept changing through the years because the nature of its
the nerve center of Dwayne Hoover's Exit Eleven Pontiac Village.
the Nightingale and the Chaffinch and the Wren and the Chiffchaff of England itself.
the offer and divided up the profits, and the friendship petered out somehow. They still
the old Holiday Inn. He was only twenty-six years old, but he was fabulously well-to-do.
The old man looked up, and he had my father's wasted face when my father was a
The old man said this: "From the time I was ten till I was sixty-two."
the one thing about their city which they had supposed was ridicule-proof had just been
The only connection the cave had with slavery was this: the farm on which it was
the only creature with free will. How does that make you feel?" And so on.
The Opera House used to be the home of the Midland City Symphony Orchestra,
The ordinance was junked later on to allow radio towers to go up.
The organ was the Pipe Organ of the Gods, a thicket of stalactites and stalagmites
The original was twenty feet wide and sixteen feet high. The field was Hawaiian
The other one looked like this:
the outside world.
The painting by Gooz had an unprecedented gush of luck on the wheel. It became
the parking lot of the Bannister Memorial Field-house.
the parking lot. It was his plan to enter the lobby of the Inn on wet bare feet, to leave
the past fifty years. A visitor to our whipping room there screamed in a transport of
The people were doing their best to cut down on the number of species, so that life
the people.
The person who answered this incantation was a person who had never played hideand-seek
The pessimism that overwhelmed him in later life, which destroyed his three marriages,
the phone book, except for The Bannister, which was a motion picture theater. Actually,
The picture Mary Alice smiled at with such uncritical bliss showed a human being who
the pictures. They paid for the words.
the pieces in a waxed paper bucket with a lid on it, so it looked like this:
the planet Earth.
The police caught him in the act of pulling up his trousers. They dazzled him with a
The poor old man crashed to his knees. He reminded me of the way my mother and
the position known as parade rest. This position was taught to soldiers and prisoners
The power for the lights and for everything electrical in Midland City, incidentally, was
the Prairies milk truck was lying on its side, blocking the flow. It had been hit hard by a
The premise of the book was this: Life was an experiment by the Creator of the
the prison by members of the Chamber of Commerce years ago, and then again when it
The professor was stripped down to his candy-striped underwear shorts and his
The program was so famous, in fact, that police even in neighboring states, when
The proper ending for any story about people it seems to me, since life is now a
The purpose of it was to kill people by jazzing them with more electricity than their
the rabbit scheme of things.
The real Dwayne Hoover, of course, had in effect denied that he was Dwayne. So,
the real thing, and mine was not in color, but I had captured the picture's form and the
The really smart people understood that one of the best ways to get rich was to own
The results had been catastrophic so far—suicide, theft, murder, and insanity and so
the rim of the dimple, not sinking in. This was all Ukwende had to say, even though
the robbery.
The Robo-Magic was going to cheer them up.
the Robo-Magic was invented. They did it any time they felt like it. One of Dwayne
the room. Like most science-fiction writers, he knew almost nothing about science. He
The runway lights of Will Fairchild Memorial Airport had just come on. Those lights
the rusted parts of a .45 caliber revolver. Tourists were told that it had been found that
The Sacred Miracle was a cross on the ceiling of the Cathedral. It was formed by the
the sacred part of him, his awareness, remained an unwavering band of light.
The scales fell from the eyes of Kilgore Trout. He saw the explanation: a Queen of
the second floor of the motel. Their sliding glass doors gave them a view of an iron
the Sexual Offenders' Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown,
the side of it in bright orange letters which were eight feet high. This was it:
the slab was drifting around on molten glurp. And all the other continents had slabs of
the slaves were black. Color was everything.
The slaves were simply turned loose without any property. They were easily
The sort of beaver which excited news photographers so much looked like this:
The sound and appearance of the word had fascinated me for many years. It
The space travelers weren't able to offer much in the way of material assistance. The
The spokesman for the Zeltoldimarians was Kago. Kago said that all he could do was to
The stage was still in there, too, but it was crowded with dinette sets now. The
the storm window business, he had no storm windows on his own abode.
The story appeared under this headline:
The story began with a big party in honor of a man who had wiped out an entire
The subject was too painful.
The substance was coming from the Barrytron plant. The company was
The sudden light roused Dwayne from his trance. He thought perhaps he had died.
the sudden silence was the Voice of God. So we still have among us some men who
the surface and what he owns."
The surface of West Virginia, with its coal and trees and topsoil gone, was
the tallest structure in Midland City. It was eight times as tall as the tombstone of
The teachers told the children that this was when their continent was discovered by
The theater manager came out and locked the door behind him.
the time of her death. Her husband had a penis seven and a half inches long and two
the time, and he supposed his life was over. He was mistaken. As a consequence of the
the time."
the topmost joint. Dwayne let go of Francine after that, and she slumped to the asphalt.
The tractor alone cost twenty-eight thousand dollars. It was powered by a three hundred
The tree so bewildered Dwayne that he almost swooned. Then he looked around and
The truck carrying Kilgore Trout was in West Virginia now. The surface of the State
The truck driver became embittered by Trout, scolded him for being so salaciously
The truck was passing through the area where Dwayne Hoover's stepparents had
The truth was that Rosewater's ancestors had been among the principal destroyers
The two black males were both kitchen employees of the Inn.
The undippable flag was a beauty, and the anthem and the vacant motto might not
the Universe would try to guess what Dwayne would yell each day. And Dwayne would
the Universe, keeping the memory of the automobile creatures alive. They came at last
the Universe, without the distractions of ambition and sex and yeast excrement. Saint
the Universe. It was a creature with the ability to make up its own mind. All the other
the used car lot, a man who had actually killed his mother was preparing to land in a
The victors in that war were cheated out of the most desirable spoils of that war,
The viewpoint of character of the tale was not the Barring-gaffner, but a humble
the votes of women.
The waitress brought me another drink. She wanted to light my hurricane lamp again.
the water in, when to let the water out, when to slosh, when to rinse, when to spin dry,
The weekend was extra-long because the coming Monday was a national holiday,
The white men wouldn't do it either, of course. They called it women's work, and the
the words in the balloon:
The workman said this: "I don't know how many horsepower, but I know what we call
the workmen were white.
The World War was going on. There was such a labor shortage that even Niggers who
the world," which was lifting and cleaning and cooking and washing and ironing and
The young black jailbird could see the name any time he wanted to, written in lights
The young man did some more burnishing. Then he smiled at Dwayne blindingly,
theater anymore, even though there were still busts of Shakespeare and Mozart and so
theaters at night, for fear of The Pluto Gang.
theaters which showed nothing but dirty movies. The humanoids wished they could
their ancestors had been used as agricultural machinery. The white farmers down there
their anthem and their motto had mentioned fairness or brotherhood or hope or
Their childhoods were over. They were dying now. Earth was a tinhorn planet as far
Their descendants continued to run the farm until the Great Depression, when the
Their legs were apart, all right, but they had on underpants, so they were
their new gang on the backs of the members' jackets. This was it:
their own. When one slab crashed into another one, mountains were made.
their relatives in prison, and I realized how most of them were black, and I thought how
their way together from Erie, Pennsylvania, to the Grand Canyon, which was the
their words simple, in order to keep embarrassing mistakes to a minimum. Dwayne
them around. She was funny. She was liberating. She taught us to be impolite in con
them became his willing slaves. They abandoned their husbands or lovers for him, in
them flunking grades and so on whenever they failed to speak like English aristocrats
them know what could be seen, in case they wanted to see it. The word was this:
them much for this reason: unusual ideas could make enemies, and the women, if they
them on your roses."
them or to drop things on them from airplanes.
them with the soup, and expose the soup to cosmic rays. The cells turned into babies
them, if he could, to discover whether they had truths about life which he had never
them. He took their free will away from them, which was perfectly all right. They didn't
them. Her eyes were popping out in a comical way. There was a balloon coming out of
themselves so frantically: "What's blocking traffic on the westbound barrel of the
them—or injected them into their veins with devices which looked like this:
Then all the drinking machines would go to a whorehouse and rent fucking machines.
then another familiar steel barrier. After that came the familiar Will Fairchild Memorial
then disappear, then appear again. Actually, there was nothing but a big open field
Then Dwayne ran out onto the asphalt between the Inn and his used car lot. He yelled
then he burnished the car again.
then he earnestly said, "I think I may be dying."
Then he heard that husbands of women who had been raped during the war between
Then he thought about what Bill himself might want. It was easy to guess. "Bill," he said,
Then she cooked his supper for him and served it. Then she went home. She was descended
then sticking again. They disappeared around a corner. Trout, the eyes and ears of the
Then the main feature began. It was about a male and a female and their two
then they were assigned cash values according to the Barring-gaffner's spins of the
then to South Korea, where Robert managed a Post Exchange, which was a
Then Trout made a good point, too. "Well," he said, "I used to be a conservationist. I
there are people willing to write everything down. Otherwise, so much would be
There had been a time when a copy of Trout's most popular book to date, Plague on
There really is such a dog.
there was a government official who spun a wheel of chance once a year.
There was a hole in the front of the box. That was how the pictures got out. On the side
There was a lot of money magic like that going on. It was almost as though some
There was a message written in pencil on the tiles by the roller towel. This was it:
There was a mildly amazing coincidence here: the father of the destroyed fetus was
There was a picture of a crazy person to go with the text. This was it:
There was a tiny connection between Mary Young and Dwayne Hoover. She did the
There was absolutely nothing about a professor or a sorority or a university anywhere
There was also a huge bonfire of all the paintings and statues and books and so on
There was an historical marker on the front of the former opera house. Not many
There was enough trouble already.
There was so much he had to learn. He didn't know anything about women, for instance.
There were bowls of such buttons around the Inn, for anybody to help himself to, and
There were enough flowers in Trout's room for a Catholic gangster's funeral. They
There were five other victims as well—one white female, two white males, two black
There were many different chains of hamburger establishments in the country.
There were monuments all over the country. But it was certainly unusual for
There were slurps and moans from loudspeakers. Then the picture itself appeared. It
there wouldn't even be a Bannister Theater in there after the new phonebooks came
there. A farmer had put it into rye.
These goodies were all in his lap, along with a crackling brown paper parcel
These were country girls. They had grown up in the rural south of the nation, where
They also wanted to drive the drug peddlers out of the neighborhood, and to get
They asked Don if dirty movies were a problem on Earth, too, and Don said, "Yes."
They asked him if the movies were really dirty, and Don replied, "As dirty as movies
they assumed, they would have free will.
they balanced one another so nicely.
they became ridiculously bright.
They bought a gravel pit together, out on Route 23A, but then the Maritime Brothers
they buggered the statistics in the ads. They made the average for everything so high
They called it Innocent Bystander High.
They could even imitate the happy screech of the extinct companion of Kilgore
They could snooze and mumble to each other all day long. They could beg. They
they couldn't believe it." Dwayne's stepfather was out of work when he told the story so
they couldn't do much about them anyway. Ideas might as well be badges as anything.
They didn't want Niggers in their town, so they put up signs on the main roads at the city
They gave a feast for the astronaut, whose name was Don. The food was terrible.
they get?"
they had ever seen, though they never laughed out loud when she did it. And, in order
They had gone into the cave with their identical Browning Automatic Shotguns, and they
they had gunpowder, which was a mixture of potassium nitrate, charcoal, and sulphur.
they had the best boats in the world, and they were meaner than anybody else, and
They never told him where or when he might expect to find himself in print. Here is
they picked up a poor man with expensively maintained teeth, fillings and bridgework
They remembered the double execution of a man and wife for treason. The couple
They remembered the double execution of a man and woman who were lovers. The
They said, too, that ice ages would continue to occur. Mile-thick glaciers would,
They studied the shazzbutter-eaters by means of electronic snooping, and
They touched this seemingly listless powder with fire, and it turned violently into gas.
They usually concealed their frenzies until late at night. But, if somebody aimed a
They wanted Dwayne Hoover to be proud of his disease.
they wanted fifty thousand dollars, too. They could have a lot of fun with fifty thousand
They were embossed fantastically with varicose veins.
They were mortuaries and guitar schools and cellar holes and parking lots now. I
they were ready to go pioneering again.
They were riding along again.
they were sheathed in plastic and the plastic was dry. Here was the structure of the
They were useless as conveyors of information, because nobody knew or cared what
thing about my control over the characters I created: I could only guide their movements
thing to do with a health club was to open it and then sell it as soon as possible for a
thing.
things like that, always rooting for her man, always rooting for Dwayne.
things other people owned.
thinking anything about it took that hand in his own. They linked up like this:
This automatically turned your mother into a weeping machine. And your father would
This created terrible problems for the million other people on the islands. The law of
This embarrassed people some.
This gas blew projectiles out of metal tubes at terrific velocities. The projectiles cut
This generous, voluptuous woman, who had only ninety-six dollars and eleven cents
This is a tale of a meeting of two lonesome, skinny, fairly old white men on a planet
This is the snake which uncoiled itself long enough to offer Eve the apple, which
This is what he had screamed in his Cockney accent: "Stop bloody hounding me!"
This last word was set in extra-large type and had a line all to itself, so it looked like
This loop of paper guaranteed Dwayne that he need have no fear that corkscrewshaped
This man looked like an old, old man, although he might have been only thirty years old.
This man, who was white, had all the medals Harold Newcomb Wilbur had, plus the
This molecule was the monster Dwayne's twin stepbrothers, Lyle and Kyle, had
this reason: sound could only travel in an atmosphere, and the atmosphere of Earth
This syphilitic man was thinking hard there, at the Crossroads of America, about how
This was a challenge to the humanoids, who were sure then: dirty movies could beat
This was a man with a wife and three kids.
This was a substance produced by a tiny creature called yeast. Yeast organisms ate
This was a symbol of friendship between men. The feeling was, too, that a lot of
This was a way of saying that the speaker intended to drain liquid wastes from his body
This was an inch:
This was because their English teachers would wince and cover their ears and give
This was Eliot Rosewater, Kilgore Trout's patron. He killed his mother accidentally in a
This was in a country where everybody was expected to pay his own bills for
This was in response to a suggestion by his second wife, Darlene, that he
This was it:
This was not a completely irrelevant recollection. Dwayne had, after all, been talking
This was their national anthem, which was pure balderdash, like so much they were
This was where babies came from.
this:
this:
this: "They were programmed that way."
this: Those shirts had been laundered in washday products which contained fluorescent
Thomas Wolfe, who was only thirty-eight years old when he died. He got a lot of help in
Thomas, and you will get another cat Arthur, your brother in Atlanta, will find eleven
Those people were infested with carnivorous little corkscrews which could be seen
those who had known her. She released a small cloud of telepathic butterflies, and one
those windows, they get to know each other pretty well."
Though his mental health had improved remarkably since breakfast, a new symptom
though I had created Dwayne and his violence and the city, and the sky above and the
though the country were saying to its citizens, "In nonsense is strength"
thought of my mother, who drove me around Indianapolis one time during the Great
thousands of other people in the city who bought bad chemicals and ate them or sniffed
Thousands of people had been married in the Cathedral of Whispers—including
thousands of years before. The Egyptians didn't build them anymore. The tombs looked
three Burger Chefs, too, and five coin-operated car washes, and pieces of the Sugar
three employees in the beginning, and its mission was to design and manufacture the
three months after his wife ate Drano.
three thousand dollars and sentenced to as much as five years at hard labor in the
three wishes I ever heard of," he told the bird. "You made sure you'd still have something
three years of his life in an orphanage only two miles from where he stood. He had been
three-inch blanket of glass wool, another sheet of aluminum foil, one inch of insulating
three-quarters of an hour had been hideously unjust. But he had spared Wayne
through a hole in a piece of canvas at the back of a booth, and people would pay money
through a valve in his lower abdomen.
through Dwayne's brains.
through meat and bone very easily, so the pirates could wreck the wiring or the bellows
Throughout its history, it had attempted to be a perfect model of corporate good
thru the perilous fight
thunderstruck audience. "Ill tell you why: She was that kind of machine!"
tie. They were all the color of tangerines.
till you give her a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise."
time about eating the pear. When the last of it had disappeared into his slurpy mouth,
time and place. There were two proper places to put it: in the gutter outside the door
time Dwayne Hoover met Kilgore Trout. There wasn't much to think about him, actually,
time when black men had done most of the heavy digging in Midland City.
time, underneath an overhanging clock which my father designed. The intersection was
time.
time.
time. Dwayne and Trout and I were pebbles at rest.
time. It was their code word for black people in general. It allowed them to speak of the
times a week, because he was so full of lust and jism all the time. And he ached to
times he might have had with food and men and women and children and the marketplace
Times, a good paper which is now defunct.
tired and nervous, too. I guess God made women so men could relax and be treated
title for this book as well as throughout the book is not intended to indicate an
title for this book is not intended to indicate an association with or sponsorship by
to a long table where the kitchen staff ate. There was a television set back there, and it
to a pimp instead.
to anything. It floated by lazily, a translucent, scarf-like fish. The word was untroubling.
To be
to be absorbed in drawing pictures on my tabletop with a damp fingertip.
to be learned, tests to be passed, and a beginning, a middle, and an end.
to be pioneered.
to be Professor Walter H. Stockmayer. He is a brilliant pianist. He skis like a dream.
to Beatrice Keedsler and Karabekian. Karabekian's drink was a Beefeater's dry martini
to Bonnie MacMahon, whose husband had lost so much money in a car wash in
to British slave traders, who took him on a sailing ship named the "Skylark" to
to come back with her crown and scepter, but he never saw anything of the show
to crave sexual intercourse and adore infants more than almost anything."
to cruise by about once every hour or so, but he was cooping in an alley behind a
to defend themselves and their friends and families, something the police wouldn't do.
to do. Both men, incidentally, were descendants of the Emperor Charlemagne. Anybody
to double up their friends and relatives with laughter, they, too, learned how to imitate
to find out if her brand-newness and prettiness and outgoing personality were worth a
to flick on the dome light. I turned on the windshield washers instead. I turned them off
to get his legs to step off the curb and carry him across Washington Street. He
to go home.
to go home."
to him at the prison gate that morning. He had nothing else to do.
to indicate that a game of hide-and-seek was over, that it was time for children in hiding
to make it whole. I want you to feel a wholeness and inner harmony such as I have
to Midland City. It was creeping. It was trapped in rush hour traffic from Barrytron and
to Milo. "If I'm not as clean as most abominable snowmen are, it is because I was
to pity them, for I understood how innocent and natural it was for them to behave so
to play. Harold New-comb Wilbur got his medals for killing Japanese, who were yellow
to protect fragile objects inside packages.
to read everything I could by and about every artist who was on his way here."
to read no Tale of Two Cities? Whuffo?"
to respond to his new understanding of life with finesse, for an audience of two —
to scrawl pictures of a Nazi flag and an asshole and a lot of other things with a felttipped
to tell, "my husband is a guard at the Shepherdstown Adult Correctional Institution, and
to the full. They put up no trespassing signs on everything.
to the headquarters of the Pontiac Division of General Motors at Pontiac, Michigan, only
to the other side, which we have never seen. And then he has come back again—to tell
to the planet Earth. In all innocence, Kago told the Earthlings about the automobiles.
to the requirements of chaos instead.
to throw away any sacred things.
TO WORK HERE, BUT IT SURE HELPS!
to, and Patty had never been so close to such a magical person before. She was in the
token resistance was offered here and there, because the natives felt so below average.
told Bible stories and stories about slavery to little Dwayne. She told him about a public
tolerate criticism. This was a characteristic beyond his control. Any hint that anything
tombstone.
tonight, grandfather," he said to Trout. "Time to go home."
too. Its trademark didn't mention prison. This was it:
too. The glare and uproar of rush hour traffic on the Interstate was blocked out by thick
took a Master's Degree in Anthropology, at Army expense, and then back to West Point,
took out the man, and they sawed him in two on the top strand of a barbed-wire fence."
top of it. Sheets of green plastic had been cut to resemble leaves.
tormrrrrrnrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrnnnnnnnnnnnn, and so on.
tornadoes or tidal waves? Anybody ever tell you about the Ice Ages he arranges for
torture went on." Here was the sign Dwayne described to Francine:
tough and poreless.
tourist trap just south of Shepherdstown, which Dwayne owned in partnership with Lyle
town before either the tombstone or the fieldhouse was completed, and they couldn't be
tractor, hooked up to a trailer forty feet long. It was so enormous that it made Trout feel
traffic on Fairchild Boulevard, which had once been the aorta of the town. The life had
tragedy:
trains.
transmission, and was owned by his brother-in-law.
transmuted to music.
transportation for school teachers and grandmothers and maiden aunts." This was true.
transvestite bar, which was Ye Old Rathskeller, in the basement of the Fairchild Hotel.
treated bit-part players in their made-up tales.
trees for six dollars, C.O.D.
trifocals, and was a horse-faced woman forty-two years old. He could not see, either,
triggered something to their bodies which made it possible for them to have children
Trinity, the Incarnation, and the divinity of the Holy Spirit, set down three hundred years
trip to Las Vegas and San Francisco and then Hawaii for a party of two. 1
trousers and underpants were around his ankles. His money was gone. His parcels
Trout also carried a copy of his novel Now It Can Be Told. This was the wide-open
Trout and Hoover were citizens of the United States of America, a country which was
Trout asked him what it had felt like to work for an industry whose business was to
Trout became a fanatic on the importance of ideas as causes and cures for diseases.
Trout came to the foot of the black man's bed. This wasn't compassion on his part.
Trout closed the door of the cage and latched it. "That's the most intelligent use of
Trout couldn't tell one politician from another one. They were all formlessly
Trout did not make the connection between the Rose-water Coal and Iron Company
Trout didn't give the experimental creature a proper name. He simply called him The
Trout didn't protest. Neither did he leave immediately. He examined a green
Trout didn't want to argue about it.
Trout felt nothing now that millions of other people wouldn't have felt—automatically.
Trout had a mental defect which I, too, used to suffer from. He couldn't remember
Trout had had a full day already, but it wasn't over yet. Now he saw his Creator leap
Trout had never heard of Dwayne when he wrote it. It was addressed to anybody who
Trout had never met a reader before, and his response now was interesting: He did not
Trout laughed at the flattering invitation, but he felt fear after that. Once again, a
Trout looked away from him, Trout forgot not only his name but his face, too.
Trout made no reply. He had hoped to get through what little remained of his life
Trout nodded in order to keep things friendly. "Yes," he said, "it's a very nice sound."
Trout passed a very expensive private room now, and there was a young black man
Trout plundered his pockets for a pen or pencil. He had an answer to the question.
Trout presented himself to this harmless man, stood before his desk with his bare
Trout read a few of the cards on the flowers, and he commented, "The town certainly
Trout read the letter out loud to his parakeet. "Things are looking up, Bill," he said.
Trout said he hoped to get safely to a cheap hotel. The manager said he hoped to
Trout said this to himself: "Stoking up for another day."
Trout shook his head. "I'm not going, Bill. I don't want out of my cage. I'm too smart
Trout shrugged.
Trout shrugged.
Trout simply walked away from the desk and sat down on a brocaded Spanish-style
Trout spotted an idiot who was eating, too. The idiot was a white male adult—in the
Trout supposed that when the atmosphere became poisonous, Bill would keel over a
Trout there on Forty-second Street, a fourteen-year-old white boy lay unconscious in the
Trout took his leave of the machine reluctantly. He said this about it to the manager:
Trout wandered out onto the sidewalk of Forty-second Street. It was a dangerous
Trout was aware of me, too, what little he could see of me. I made him even more
Trout was cantering when I came alongside. I clocked him at eleven miles an hour,
Trout was deflated—neutralized. He dropped his arms, became child-like now.
Trout was feeling spooky. He thought maybe a lot of people were going to greet him
Trout wondered now if his friendship with Heath was over. The last time Trout had
Trout wondered what a child who was just learning to read would make of a message
Trout would drop into the shop from time to time, and say such things as, "Who's
Trout's image in the leak was as shocking as he had hoped it would be. He had not
Trout's island childhood, which was the Bermuda Ern.
Trout's name was given as Kilmer Trotter, incidentally, address unknown. His age
Trout's name with a lurid banner which made this promise:
Trout's right ring finger somehow slipped into Dwayne's mouth, and Dwayne bit off
Trout's story, and Ralston Valentine became President of the United States, thanks to
Trout, we were starving for so long, without even knowing what we were hungering for,"
Trout, whose eyes were wild. The motto was this:
Trout.
Trout. "Hey man, hey man, hey man," he wheedled. He had had his foot amputated
Trout. I only found out about it day before yesterday. I was reading a magazine, and I
Trout. Saint Sebastian was a Roman soldier who had lived seventeen hundred years
Trout. She clasped an eighteen-ounce bottle of Pepsi-Cola to her breast.
Trout. She had never reproduced. There were no friends or relatives to watch her die.
Trout?"
truck locked up in traffic. The tractor was pulling two trailers instead of one. Here was
true now, and that Japan and San Francisco, for instance, were in hideous danger,
true.
true. Dwayne paid high wages. He had profit-sharing and Christmas bonuses at the end
trustingly at the holy light. He was ready for anything.
tumbling into Sugar Creek. Next came the three familiar west-bound lanes, and then the
turn his daughter into an outboard motor?"
turned inward. He was thinking about moving fingers writing and moving on, and so
turned out to be a bright thing to do, since so many banks failed during the Great
tuxedo shirt. The name of the magazine was Black Garterbelt. The tuxedo shirt had a
twenty years. He came to work for him when the agency was right on the edge of the
twenty-five years.
two agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Leo had deserted from his division
two and one-quarter inches in diameter.
two color television sets, two tile baths, four double beds equipped with Magic Fingers.
Two Hundred Meter Breast Stroke Champion of the World. It will also be the city which
two hundred miles long and sixty-two miles in diameter. He gets a realistic novel out of
two inches long, with an inside diameter of three inches and an outside diameter of four
two years before George Hickman Bannister was cut down in his prime. It didn't cost
typesetter, who seduced his mother by setting her poems in type. He didn't sneak them
Ukwende and Khashdrahr Miasma, he thought he was standing up. The book had told
Ukwende and police and a team from Civil Defense had done the work so far. Miasma
Ukwende was not mystified by plasticized, unitized shoes and socks. He saw shoes
Ukwende's face was impassive as he ordered the Number Three Breakfast with
Ukwende, an Indaro, was a man whose ancestors had kidnapped an ancestor of Key's
Ukwende, too. Dwayne was a man whose family had taken over Bluebird Farm.
unanswered, but here is what he would have written, if he had found anything to write
unconscious. The operation didn't hurt at all.
uncontrollable awe. His mouth fell open.
under his pillow and stick it in his mouth. This was a tool whose only purpose was to
under the ground and he wants to get at it, you got to let him tear up anything between
underneath another man's farm or woods or house. And any time the man wants to get
underneath the Queensboro Bridge at Fifty-ninth Street, with the East River nearby. His
Underpants!
underpants. Yes—there is a picture in this book of underpants. I'm throwing out
underside of the bar.
understand that she might never be this close to the supernatural ever again.
understand that there is no order in the world around us, that we must adapt ourselves
understand the Bible. He could hardly talk. He ate his last supper, and then he sat still.
uneasy than Dwayne did. The thing was: Trout was the only character I ever created
unexpectedly screamed at him.
unfinished when he died. The monument looked like this:
unflagging unselfishness. He begged her to just hold him for a while, which she did.
uninterested in reproduction.
Universe or some other supernatural power were preparing him for the meeting, Trout
Universe, Who wanted to test a new sort of creature He was thinking of introducing into
universe. I had leaks.
Universe. You are the only creature in the entire Universe who has free will. You are the
until they reached open country, since it was against the law for him to pick up
unusual.
up while wading across Sugar Creek.
upstairs to the finance office. There were certain forms he had to fill out, since he was
urgency about explaining all the things I hadn't explained yet, and then hurtling on with
us about the other side."
used to weep and wail about people shooting bald eagles with automatic shotguns from
useful machine. The used cars were all locked up tight for the night. Now and then
using man's first printing press. You are reading a bold and universal headline which
usually fairly famous, into what looked like an ordinary room, only it was actually a
vacant lot, proceeded sedately down Union Avenue, which paralleled the Interstate.
vacant, except for night watchmen's cars which were here and there. There was no
vacuum.
Valentine also sandpapered his fingertips. But he wasn't a safe-cracker. Ralston was so
valuable oil painting as a focal point for the Midland City Festival of the Arts.
various parts of automobiles and even entire automobiles were destroyed. Pontiac
vastly improved upon, by all the five-year-olds in town. I would love for your children to
vaulted onto the bed of a very unusual truck, which had been built on the chassis of a
vehicle. He had done nothing so far to deal with all the emergencies.
Vernon Garr was a white mechanic who was the only other employee who had been
Vernon Garr, discussing the hallucinations Vernon's wife was having. "She sees things
Vernon was having trouble at home. His wife, Mary, was a schizophrenic, so Vernon
versation not only about sexual matters, but about American history and famous heroes,
very long before she was made dead again. She got killed for crying and crying. She
Very soon, Bunny Hoover would be seriously injured by Dwayne, would soon share
Veterans' Day. It was in honor of people who had served their country in uniform.
virgin planet instead. Living cells were sliced from the palms of his hands, while he was
Visiting hours had ended, so all his female sex slaves had departed. But they had left
Vonnegut's seventh novel. He wrote it mostly in New York City. His six children are fullgrown.
waist, and a thirty-eight-inch bosom when she ate Drano.
waist, and a thirty-nine-inch bosom.
waist, and a thirty-three-inch bosom.
walk down Fairchild Boulevard—toward a tiny amber dot at the other end. The dot was
walking away.
wall and into the cocktail lounge. "When you get tarred of watchin' television," he said,
want her to," Francine told Dwayne.
want it anyway. It was as though they had surrendered themselves to Jesus, for
want to hear new things from new people. I've heard everything anybody in Midland City
wanted some more coffee. So he got up and went over and took the cup. Leroy was
wanted the quality of their lives to improve. They lived in ugly places where there were
wanted to know where babies came from were sometimes told that they were brought
wanted to read out loud from them in Midland City—as a demonstration of a tragedy
war in Viet Nam. He had also fought yellow robots who ran on rice.
War were silent during the eleventh minute of the eleventh hour of Armistice Day, which
War, they were music hall entertainers in England. Fred's father played the musical
War, to make big money at the Keedsler Automobile Company, which was
war. Dwayne hadn't been in combat. He was a civilian employee of the United States
was a career officer in the Army. He had a penis six and one-half inches long and one
was a dumb play on words, so that Trout was asking simultaneously what it was like to
was a full moon. There were two full moons. The new Mildred Barry Memorial Center for
was a high quality film of a male humanoid eating what looked like a pear. The camera
was a longtime acquaintance of Dwayne's. Her husband was a guard in the Sexual
was a member of the Parole Board out at Shepherdstown, had taught Mary Alice to
was a mortuary! Look at yourself in a mirror, Harry, and ask yourself, Who could ever
was a robot, with one exception—Dwayne Hoover.
was a scheme for making strangers like and trust a person immediately, no matter what
was a sign on the wall next to the roller towel. It advertised a massage parlor called The
was about a tragic failure to communicate.
was actually a book from Rosewater's collection. Rosewater used his science-fiction
was actually used on a black human being he knew.
was aghast. All she could say over and over again was, "You're my man. You're my
was all dressed up, and Queen Mary put her head on the block of her own accord.
was allowed to own vast areas of Earth's surface, and the petroleum and other valuable
was as shattering as buggery to Trout.
was back there. It said this to Dwayne: "Oh my, oh my."
was before.
was behaving suspiciously outside the back gate of Barrytron, Ltd., which was involved
was being turned into pavement so his truck could go anywhere. "So I'm committing
was called "Blue Monday" because doing the laundry disgusted and exhausted women.
was called Bang's disease.
was defunct.
was exactly as important as anybody else in the Universe, bring more yeast excrement
was fabulously well-to-do.
was given as eighty-two.
was head of Catholic churches everywhere, announced that there probably never had
was in agony, as it hauled things from here to there. This was the message, and Wayne
was Kilgore Trout.
was loaded and cocked. There were neat little metal packages containing charcoal,
was Mary Young. She was one hundred and eight years old. She was black. Mary
was no way anybody could prepare for the bewildering diversity of creatures and plants
was on, and it showed Wayne the beheading of Queen Mary of Scotland. Everybody
was put in cages all the time.
was repairing a defective gas oven in there.
was rigged, and the Barring-gaffner committed suicide.
was sentenced to death a second time. He was beaten to death by rods.
was seven inches long and two and one-eighth inches in diameter when engorged with
was so full of arrows that he looked like a porcupine.
was suffocated at last by a living blanket one hundred feet thick. The blanket was
was supposed to take part in a symposium out there entitled "The Future of the
was taken into consideration, and so on.
was the eleventh day of the eleventh month.
was the most expensive piece of art, not counting buildings and tombstones, and not
was the name of a Roman emperor who had a sculptor make a hollow, life-size iron bull
was the one who was being reborn. Nobody else in the cocktail lounge was reborn, as
was the word:
was trying to turn her brains into plutonium.
was winded, for one thing. For another, he understood that Wayne was a perfect
was wishful thinking on his part that the upper crust of Midland City was about to be as
was wondering how long his attack of echolalia was likely to last, and Patty Keene had
washed up after his drubbing by The Pluto Gang, so there was caked blood on one
washer again. "I don't need a gun to control you, Mr. Trout. All I have to do is write down
washes needed cheap and plentiful labor, which meant black labor—and there were no
washing machine on the corporate emblem at the top of the stock certificate."
wasn't as though I was connected to them by steel wires. It was more as though I was
wasn't discovered until 1937, when a small earthquake opened it up a crack. Dwayne
watch each other for danger signals. Here was its title:
watch your reactions. They can no more feel or reason than grandfather clocks.
watched the action in his rearview mirror. Dwayne was swaddled so tightly in canvas
water, and the steam had made steel windmills whiz around and around. The windmills
way diminished, in some way a fool. Sometimes he actually killed a man in order to
way, that it probably belonged to some railroad robber who had been trapped in the
way. They refused to read books they couldn't understand—on the grounds they
Wayne didn't even know the Earth revolved around the Sun. He thought the Sun
Wayne dodged again, and had to dodge yet again almost instantly, as Dwayne
Wayne Hoobler did, that some kind of terrible mistake had been made.
Wayne Hoobler's face had been blank so far, but now it began to bloom with
Wayne Hoobler, on the other hand, had nothing machine-like to do. He ached to be a
Wayne remained at parade rest while Dwayne told of his year as a County Executive
Wayne shyly acknowledged that this was true. So Eldon took him through a kitchen
Wayne would assume that it belonged to a woman who loved somebody named
Wayne would mouth the unusual first name tentatively. "Woo-ee?" he would say.
Wayne's new elevation gave him a view past Dwayne of both barrels of the
Wayne's only experiences with alcohol had had to do with drinking cleaning fluids and
Wayne. "When was the last time you ate? This mornin'?"
Wayne. This was it:
we had momentous things to say to one another about my having created him.
wealthiest man in Midland City. Fred T. Barry had paid for the new Center of the Arts,
Wearers of the bracelets weren't supposed to take them off until the prisoners came
Week, too.
weekend away, was Harry's golden opportunity to loosen up, to have some fun, to encourage
weight since high school. His pockets were crammed with mothballs. They bulged like
weightless thing—at two hours before dawn on the day after Veterans' Day. He crossed
well-to-do."
well.
well—let a five-year-old paint a sacred interpretation of that encounter. Let that fiveyear-old
went into his office, which was also cluttered with ukuleles and pineapples.
went up in Sugar Creek, were constructed supposedly so that George Hickman
were all staying at the Inn, would come into the cocktail lounge. He wanted to talk to
were all twittery and squirmy.
were also far above average.
were artistic feet.
were being born just a few feet away.
were bent on exalting creativity, a would-be creator who had failed and failed. He
were both beautiful in exotic ways, and they both boiled over with chaotic talk about love
were Chinese symbols of harmony. They looked like this:
were chunks of mat-tress and swatches of chicken wire all over the yard.
were coated at once with a clear plastic substance from the surface of the creek. When,
were composed mainly of white men. They had racks and racks of submachine guns
were from Fred T. Barry, the Chairman of the Arts Festival, and from the Midland City
were going to achieve any sort of comfort and safety, needed all the friends they could
were in tatters. He was lumpy with scars.
were my age. I was over at their house all the time.
were on battlefields during that minute. They have told me in one way or another that
were powered by internal combustion engines. They ate fossil fuels. They weren't
were scattered around him —the tuxedo, the new shirt, the books. Blood seeped from
were sent and received in his country, even the telepathic ones, had to do with buying
were superior or inferior to the majority, in this respect or that one—whatever the
were supposed to go.
were supposed to go. Every bit of land on the islands was owned by only about forty
were treeless and flat. He imagined that oceans and mountains and forests were mainly
were white daggers. His slobber was cyanide. His blood was nitroglycerine.
were. Eddie Key was afloat in a river of people who were flowing from here to there in
weren't using machines made out of meat anymore, though, because machines made
West Virginia, which offered him ten different kinds of flowering shrubs and five fruit
Western Electric and Prairie Mutual. Trout looked up from his reading, saw a billboard
Western Electric warehouse about two miles away. Cooping was police slang for
what a big animal the idiot was. The idiot's happiness was fascinating, too, as he stoked
what color they were. "I used to think that was such a shame," he said. "I used to think
what could possibly be dirtier than what he had already seen on Earth. He became
what different people in his life looked like—unless their bodies or faces were strikingly
What else is sacred? Oh, Romeo and Juliet, for instance.
what he is because of faulty wiring, or because of microscopic amounts of chemicals
What is time? It is a serpent which eats its tail, like this:
what it looked like:
what so many Americans believed then: that the nation would be happy and just and
What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's
what the badges said:
what they paid him: doodley-squat.
what they said.
what to do."
what was being manufactured was lousy, by and large.
what was left of the planet should be shared more or less equally among all the people,
What was the apple which Eve and Adam ate? It was the Creator of the Universe.
what's underneath all that, he's got a right to wreck what's on top to get at it. The rights
whatever I wished him to see. I might have shown him a Helen of Troy, for instance,
whatever they did.
wheel to decide what to put in the museums, and what to throw out."
wheel.
Wheels and Now It Can Be Told, a magazine containing a short story of his, and a
Wheels, had brought as much as twelve dollars, because of the illustrations. It was now
When an autopsy was performed on him, a tumor the size of a piece of birdshot was
When Dwayne Hoover saw Harry LeSabre, his sales manager, in leaf-green leotards
When Dwayne razzed him about the clothes he wore to work, and then mentioned
When Dwayne treated Harry as though he were invisible, Harry thought he had
When Harry presented himself to Dwayne so ridiculously, every molecule in his body
When he bought the magazine, the cashier supposed Trout was drunk or feebleminded.
When he got to the auditorium itself, the house lights were on. Nobody was there but
When he hath tried me,
when he imagined what the marshes and meadows had been like only a hundred years
When he lived on Cape Cod, for instance, the only person he could greet warmly and
when I come to work on Tuesday morning."
when I did the soigné thing of lighting a cigarette. I should have known that a character
When I get depressed, I take a little pill, and I cheer up again.
When I got out of my Plymouth Duster, I feared nothing. That was foolish of me. A
when I open my front door: an unwavering band of light.
When Kilgore Trout accepted the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1979, he declared:
When Kilgore Trout hit town, the black people could still imitate those birds, and say
when she was alive—that she must be diseased.
When the employee went away, Wayne would drift back to the used cars, keeping
When the Germans were full of bad chemicals, their flag looked like this:
when the Opera House became a motion picture house, The Bannister. The orchestra
When the radio said there had been a tornado in Texas, Dwayne said this out loud:
when the real Dwayne came out at lunch time, Wayne, who had nobody to talk to but
When the same clothes were viewed in a dark room under ultraviolet light, however,
when they used to electrocute people all the time. He'd play cards with them, or read
When Trout and the theater manager, two tinhorns, said they didn't want any tinhorn
when we became middle-aged men and older, it was the duty of the police and the
where children could learn the history of Midland City—as told by arrowheads and
where Kazak lived in the daytime. He dragged Kazak into the pit at sunrise. He
Where other people in the cocktail lounge had eyes, I had two holes into another
where Robert was an Assistant Professor of Social Sciences for three years.
where they were and what was about to happen to them by putting up actual street
whether he was average or not. The world average was five and seven-eighths inches
whether he was kidding or not. He told one persistent questioner that he always crossed
which announced the presence of the Inn to weary travelers on the Interstate. Here is
which attacked their eyes and brains. Men had brought the fungus to their rookery in the
which drove his only son, Leo, from home at the age of fourteen, very likely had its roots
which drove home the point: "You can always trust Dwayne."
which gave the aluminum siding of Dwayne Hoover's dreamhouse in Midland City its
which had been used on rocket ships to the Moon. This was, in fact, the same material
which had grown together in one corner of the Cathedral. There was a loudspeaker in
which had nothing to do with his tales. He wrote a novel,/for instance, about an
which he appeared, so he had to search them out in pornography stores. And the titles
which he ate or failed to eat on that particular day.
which her husband felt he had lost. "Fuck Dwayne Hoover," she said. "Fuck Midland
which I now write large because I feel like it, which is this one:
which looked exactly like Delmore Skag.
which meant that at the time of the shooting the boy was unable to distinguish the
which my little friends the beavers were not. Lions? No. Tigers? No. Lions and tigers
which offered him the penis-extender and the rubber vagina for lonesomeness. He had
which said this:
which said this:
which said this: "The flag shall not be dipped to any person or thing."
which showed blue movies. They thought he was doing consulting work as an engineer
which the wheel had said were worthless. And then it was discovered that the wheel
which usually didn't even have women in them, to give bulk to books and magazines of
which was a mathematical constant, could not exist.
which was a place where men could live simple lives and pray often to the Creator of
which was a translucent sphere on stilts. It had no windows. When illuminated inside at
which was an amateur group of music enthusiasts. But they became homeless in 1927,
which was dying fast.
which was excellent for a man his age. He, too, was now full of adrenaline and coagulants
which was grass. Dwayne was subdued on the median divider by two State Policemen
which was join a big transvestite club over in Cincinnati. He never went into the city's
which was ludicrous as well.
which was out on Crestview Avenue, across the street from where the new John F.
which was right above the hole in women where men were supposed to stick their much
which was then called The Midland City Ordnance Company. It later became Barrytron,
which was to kill his own child. Her name was Cynthia Anne, and she certainly didn't live
which were buried by the crash.
which were human slaves.
which would soon turn Dwayne into a homicidal maniac.
While Dwayne Hoover listened to West Virginia, Kilgore Trout tried to fall asleep in a
while Dwayne was beating the daylights out of Francine Pefko:
while giving birth to Dwayne. The printer disappeared. He was a disappearing machine.
While he waited for an artist to appear, he consoled himself with the only artistic
While Kilgore Trout was inadvertently poisoning the collective mind of New York City,
while lying down in his automobile, only a few yards away.
While my life was being renewed by the words of Rabo Karabekian, Kilgore Trout
while that they actually built factories whose only purpose was to kill people by the
whispered those exact words to a friend one morning as Dwayne walked by: "Fabulously
whistle. "The carpeting under my feet," he signaled from the lobby, "is springy and new.
white man named Leroy Joyce company."
who became a famous chemist anyway. He discovered many remarkable new uses for
who became President of the United States. He called it "Hail to the Chief."
who comforted me in Indianapolis—
who had enough imagination to suspect that he might be the creation of another human
who had never been to Midland City before. But Harry was an isolated victim now.
who had spent any time in Shepherdstown. The rule of silence was enforced in the
who hadn't asked to come to a wrecked planet in the first place. Meanwhile, more
who happened by.
who hired a private detective agency to discover who and where he was. Trout was so
who offered them eggs and oranges and milk and butter and peanuts and so on. The
Whoa! Mr. Trout!"
whole lot of wonderful new colors, with strange, exciting names like red!, orange!,
whole-wheat toast. Behind his mask was a young man in the terminal stages of
whore, and every whore had her price, and Francine's price was what a Colonel
whores couldn't actually deliver these goodies, of course.
Whose broad stripes and bright stars,
whose inhabitants resembled American automobiles. They had wheels. They
why he was in a Plymouth Fury, so he yelled out the window: "Keeping abreast of the
why should anybody have wanted to tempt him?"
Why were so many Americans treated by their government as though their lives were
why. They are simply liking machines and hating machines.
wide-open beavers inside. The picture on the cover of Now It Can Be Told, which was
widower—when my father was an old old man.
wife had died such strange deaths within a month of each other.
wildcat or run like a deer.
wilderness and lived alone for twenty years.
will look like this from the back:
window framed a piece of the blank brick side of what used to be the Keedsler Opera
windowless building which droned monotonously.
windows of the showroom and on the windshields of some used cars. Wayne tried to
with a cream interior, with his radio on. He heard several of his own radio commercials,
with a door between them open. Trout and every distinguished visitor had a suite, with
with a door on it. The door could be locked from the outside. The bull's mouth was open.
with a membership card in the Playboy Club of America, made out in the name of Paulo
with a twist of lemon peel, so Bonnie said to him, "Breakfast of Champions."
with any European blood in him was a descendant of the Emperor Charlemagne.
with bayonets, ride a horse, creep and crawl through shrubbery, peek around corners
with Dwayne before Dwayne moved the agency out to the Interstate. As it happened,
with great solemnity, "Don't get too near that leak. You wouldn't want to wind up in the
with hammers and hacksaws. Tourists were told that real
with him on one of his few bad days," said Francine.
with his belt and the buttons on his fly. The police supposed that they had caught him
with:
Within a century of little Kago's arrival on Earth, according to Trout's novel, every form
without any advice from Dwayne. He had trained her well.
without assistance, and to choose a place to sit where he would be away from real
without being seen.
without end.
without ever having to touch another human being again. Dwayne's chin on his shoulder
without losing cold air in the summertime or hot air in the wintertime to the out-of-doors.
WO1 Jon Sparks, and that the woman and WO1 had become engaged or married or
WO1 stood for Warrant Officer First Class, which was the rank of Jon Sparks.
woman that heavy.
women called it Nigger work.
women so well that he could seduce anyone he wanted. So Trout wrote The Son of
Women's Two Hundred Meter Breast Stroke Champion of the World. She was only fifteen,
wonderingly. "But there was, by God."
word for word what Fred's mother had said before each imitation. If one of them imitated
Word of honor: I am better now.
word of the hate mail you have been thoughtful enough to send to New York."
word to yell to other newsmen and friendly policemen and firemen and so on, to let
word.
words with the policeman, and he put me in jail.
work at Watson Brothers. Have yourself embalmed while you're at it."
works here told me who you were. When you came in, they just buzzed and buzzed."
workshoes, each wearing a pork-pie hat. They were familiar, they were real. Dwayne
world for Bermuda Erns. These great green sea eagles eventually became extinct,
world is Rosewater as far as they're concerned."
world's record as far as I knew. It slumbered now in my Jockey Shorts. And I got out of
worry about it. And then Leroy rattled his tin cup on the bars. My husband thought Leroy
worse days coming by and by. And both our mothers committed suicide. Bunny's
worshipped. They were automobiles. They had killed everything.
worth eighteen thousand lambos, the equivalent of one billion dollars on Earth. The
worth wishing for—to get out of the cage."
would be a poisonous, festering cheese when you got here. Also, He made sure it
would be desperately crowded by programming robots, regardless of their living conditions,
would be harder for communists to hide from airplanes.
would bring chaos to order, instead, which I think I have done.
would can him.
would come to him. Ideas for favors always came.
would function well at high altitudes. It had hydraulic steering, air brakes, a thirteenspeed
would get up enough nerve that night to call him on the telephone, but Dwayne wouldn't
would have to wade.
would keep them moving. They were as easy to move, usually, as toy balloons.
would like art more. You realize that?"
would meet his Creator, who would explain everything.
would not get jobs because of their appearances, and good looks began with good
would protect them.
would respond to them as best he could. "Go," he would say to them. "Spin 'roun."
would ride.'
would say, and "Hoo-he-woo-hi," and so on.
wouldn't shut up.
wouldn't want to be a man— they take such chances, they work so hard." They were on
wouldn't. Sometimes a wife would get so mad at her husband that she would put a hole
write their language if they couldn't love or understand incomprehensible novels and
writer off-guard, since the materials with which he works are so dangerous, can expect
writer's books sandpapered his fingertips, so they were extrasensitive. He was a safecracker.
years ago, had been flushed from the cave and into the Ohio River—to turn belly-up, to
years, which was one of many reasons he had for feeling panicky.
yeast. They were discussing the possible purposes of life as they ate sugar and suffocated
yellow tape to a green piece of canvas. He insisted that Wayne take a good look at
yet wave
YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE CRAZY
you every day."
you fool.
you get a bunch of cotton waste from Vern Garr, soak it in Blue Sunoco, and burn up
You're sixteen,
you've seen and heard—the people who get aluminum siding, are they happy with what
you, with your free will, choose?
young to think intelligently about wide-open beavers and all that.
Young's parents had been human slaves in Kentucky.
younger stepbrothers, Lyle and Kyle Hoover. The cave was Sacred Miracle Cave, a
your fucking wardrobe? You make me feel like I'm at Watson Brothers." Watson
your mother would become a very slow forgiving machine."
your painting. I've seen better pictures done by a five-year-old."
yours as well.
youthful adventure for people who want a kick out of life! And you dress and act like this
Zog landed at night in Connecticut. He had no sooner touched down than he saw a
zoomed in on his lips and tongue and teeth, which glistened with saliva. He took his
| Kilgore Trout became a pioneer in the field of mental health. He advanced his theories
· "Anyway," said the driver, "they had so many books in Libertyville, they used books
· "Are you crazy?" he said.
· "At least it's olives," the driver said. "What?" said Trout.
· "Can the reindeer hear you?" said Harry.
· "Don't matter if you care," the old miner said, "if you don't own what you care about."
· "Every time you went into the library," said the book, "the Creator of the Universe held
· "Excuse me," said the truck driver to Trout, "I've got to take a leak."
· "Give me a Black and White and water," he heard the waitress say, and Wayne
· "Harry," said Francine, "everybody is entitled to a few bad days. Dwayne has fewer
· "I am approaching my fiftieth birthday, Mr. Trout," I said. "I am cleansing and renewing
· "I can't tell if you're serious or not," said the driver.
· "I guess that isn't the right word," she said. She was used to apologizing for her use of
· "I know what you mean," said the driver. "One time I saw a whole family standing
· "I pity men," said Francine, there in the Quality Motor Court. She was sincere. "I
· "I've lost my way," said Dwayne. 1 need somebody to take me by the hand and lead
· "Leroy Joyce was so dumb," Bonnie went on, "he couldn't play cards. He couldn't
· "Mr. Trout," I said from the unlighted interior of the car, "you have nothing to fear. I
· "Oh, Mr. Trout," nice Milo went on, there in Trout's suite, "teach us to sing and dance
· "Remember Pearl Harbor!" yelled Dwayne. Most of what he had done during the past
· "The organ turned black, and the ceiling turned a kind of dirty yellow," said Lyle. "You
· "This has to be the asshole of the Universe," said Rabo Karabekian, the minimal
· "When was the last time they used the electric chair?" said Francine. She was asking
· "When we started selling Pontiacs, Harry," said Dwayne, "the car was sensible
· "Why me?" said Harry. This was a common question in Midland City. People were
· "You know what I keep thinking?" said Francine.
· "You married, Kilgore?" the driver asked.
· A black intern at the County Hospital now watched Mary Young die of pneumonia.
· A black male dishwasher stepped out of the kitchen of the Inn now for a Pall Mall
· A dinosaur was a reptile as big as a choo-choo train. It looked like this:
· A hamburger was made out of an animal which looked like this:
· A lot of people have oodles of charm.
· A lot of the nonsense was the innocent result of playfulness on the part of the
· A lot of the people on the wrecked planet were Communists. They had a theory that
· A pyramid was a sort of huge stone tomb which Egyptians had built thousands and
· A wide-open beaver was a photograph of a woman not wearing underpants, and with
· Actually, women's underpants had been drastically devalued by the time of the
· Adapting to chaos there in the cocktail lounge, I now had Bonnie MacMahon, who
· After insisting that Trout had a rich social life, the driver pretended, again for his own
· After the Keedslers lost the mansion at the start of the Great Depression, Fred T.
· After Trout became famous, of course, one of the biggest mysteries about him was
· All of us were stuck to the surface of a ball, incidentally. The planet was ball-shaped.
· And Bunny's mother and my mother had one really bizarre symptom in common:
· And Dwayne was so open to new suggestions about the meaning of life that he was
· And here, according to Trout, was the reason human beings could not reject ideas
· And I made an invisible duplicate on my Formica table-top of a painting by Rabo
· And I sat there in the new Holiday Inn, and made it disappear, then appear again,
· And it is in order to acknowledge the continuity of this polymer that I begin so many
· And it was time now for me to have Rabo Karabekian, the minimalist painter, and
· And just as motherless Dwayne Hoover was berating motherless Wayne Hoobler in
· And now comes the spiritual climax of this book, for it is at this point that I, the author,
· And the experimental creature wasn't killed after the banquet. He was transferred to a
· And the madness about wide-open beavers was extended to underpants when
· And then the Earthling armored space ships came in and discovered the planet. Only
· And they certainly weren't worrying about it now. They had other fish to fry. Dwayne
· And Trout, who had so little money left, ordered a cup of coffee. He asked an old, old
· Another animal invented by the Creator of the Universe was a Mexican beetle which
· Armistice Day has become Veterans' Day. Armistice Day was sacred. Veterans' Day
· As a child, Trout had seen those Erns die, one by one. His father had assigned him
· As a younger man, Trout would have sneered at the sign about brotherhood—posted
· As an old, old man, Trout would be asked by Dr. Thor Lembrig, the Secretary-General
· As for the fortune I might have told for the waitress, this was it: "You will be swindled
· As for the story in Black Garterbelt magazine: Trout had no idea that it had been
· As for the story itself, it was entitled "The Dancing Fool." Like so many Trout stories, it
· As for the suspicion I express in this book, that human beings are robots, are
· As for Wayne Hoobler, the black ex-convict whose only dream was to work for
· As Trout departed, he sent this telepathic message to the Creator of the Universe,
· At least Bunny's mother taught him how to control a piano, which was a music
· At the wheel of the ambulance was Eddie Key, a young black man who was a direct
· Before Dwayne entered his inner office, he read one of many comical signs which
· Bunny Hoover was controlling the piano. He had not looked up when his father came
· Bunny was pale, the same unhealthy color of the blind fish that used to live in the
· Bunny was sent away to military school, an institution devoted to homicide and
· But Gloria took over Francine's desk anyway. "I don't have nerve enough to commit
· But Trout was no walking printing press. His feet left no marks on the carpet, because
· Calvary Cemetery, where George Hickman Bannister was at rest, was named in
· Choo-choo trains and steamboats and factories had whistles which were blown by
· Cyprian Ukwende now tried to remove Dwayne Hoover's shoes—but Dwayne's shoes
· Defunct.
· Don Breedlove was in the kitchen of the Inn when Dwayne began his rampage. He
· Dwayne and Francine headed for Shepherdstown in separate cars, so as not to call
· Dwayne and Francine made love in the Quality Motor Court. Then they stayed in bed
· Dwayne appreciated Patty Keene's brand-newness, even though he was not sexually
· Dwayne certainly wasn't alone, as far as having bad chemicals inside of him was
· Dwayne didn't kill anybody on his rampage, but he hurt eleven people so badly they
· Dwayne didn't know anything about that. He leaned on Francine Pefko's desk. He
· Dwayne entered his showroom. The ground wasn't blooping underneath him
· Dwayne finished his breakfast, and he dared to suppose that he was no longer
· Dwayne forgot all about Patty Keene, but she certainly hadn't forgotten him. She
· Dwayne gazed over the sleeping city. He had been born there. He had spent the first
· Dwayne got to his feet now, having wolfed down tens of thousands of words of such
· Dwayne had a black servant named Lottie Davis. She cleaned his house every day.
· Dwayne had a hamburger and French fries and a Coke at his newest Burger Chef,
· Dwayne held the muzzle of his gun in his mouth for a while. He tasted oil. The gun
· Dwayne Hoover broke Wayne Hoobler's heart by shaking his head vaguely, then
· Dwayne Hoover had oodles of charm.
· Dwayne Hoover told poor Harry LeSabre that the Hawaiian Festival, only a long
· Dwayne Hoover was now hustled aboard Martha— through big double doors in her
· Dwayne Hoover was only four miles away. He was sitting alone on a zebra-skin
· Dwayne Hoover's and Kilgore Trout's country, where there was still plenty of
· Dwayne Hoover, incidentally, had an unusually large penis, and didn't even know it.
· Dwayne Hoover, incidentally, wasn't taking any of this in. He was still hypnotized,
· Dwayne Hoover, six feet away, gazed out at the busy, sunny Interstate Highway. He
· Dwayne progressed from dimple to dimple.
· Dwayne shoved Bunny's head from behind. He rolled it like a cantaloupe up and
· Dwayne stayed in his vacant lot for a while. He played the radio. All the Midland City
· Dwayne thought the young man was an hallucination.
· Dwayne tried to remember when the last execution took place at Shepherdstown.
· Dwayne turned on the floodlights around his house, and he played basketball on the
· Dwayne was hoping that some of the distinguished visitors to the Arts Festival, who
· Dwayne was silent for a while. And then he told her haltingly about a trip he had made
· Dwayne was so glad to see them now—these two little men in overalls and
· Dwayne went back to work at about two in the afternoon, and he avoided
· Dwayne went on calling for Niggers to come talk to him. He smiled. He thought that
· Dwayne zoomed down Old County Road and onto the Interstate, which he had all to
· Dwayne's bad chemicals meanwhile changed his manner toward Francine from
· Dwayne's bad chemicals now made him put his car in gear. He drove out of the
· Dwayne's waitress at the Burger Chef was a seventeen-year-old white girl named
· Earth scientists had just discovered something fascinating about the continent Patty
· Eddie Key knew so much about his ancestry because the black part of his family had
· Eddie Key's familiarity with a teeming past made life much more interesting to him
· Eldon revealed to Wayne a peephole, which kitchen workers had drilled through the
· Everybody in America was supposed to grab whatever he could and hold onto it.
· Fifteen minutes later, Bunny's awareness bobbed to the surface of its own accord.
· Francine followed Robert from West Point to Parachute School at Fort Bragg, and
· Francine had a sign on the wall over her desk, which had been given to her as a joke
· Francine Pefko was willing to go to the Quality Motor Court with Dwayne. It was her
· Francine worked at Dwayne's principal place of business, which was Dwayne
· Francine, who had been so proud of her capacity to make Dwayne relax, was now
· Fred T. Barry began advertising the Robo-Magic in 1933, long before there was a
· Fred T. Barry confessed in his letter that he had not read the works of Kilgore Trout,
· Fred T. Barry wrote these ads himself, and he predicted at the time that Robo-Magic
· George Hickman Bannister's obelisk was paid for by public subscription, with the
· God bless you," said the manager. This was a fully automatic response many
· Grace LeSabre expressed her contempt for the good opinion of Dwayne Hoover,
· Harry and his wife had spent all weekend arguing about whether or not Dwayne
· Harry couldn't do anything but let his mouth hang open. The Hawaiian Week Dwayne
· Harry LeSabre might have weathered all this with only minor damage, if only Harry
· Harry LeSabre was at that moment crying, too. He was at home—in bed. He had a
· Harry LeSabre was entitled to talk about combat. He had been in actual combat in a
· Harry LeSabre, meanwhile, had been destroyed by Dwayne.
· Harry's wife, Grace, was stretched out on a chaise longue at some distance from the
· He established a sort of relationship with the traffic on the Interstate, too, appreciating
· He had a photograph of Dwayne in his wallet. He used to have photographs of
· He had a point. The planet was being destroyed by manufacturing processes, and
· He left it at that. But he reread the invitation from time to time, got to know it by heart.
· He put the basketball away, and he climbed into a black Plymouth Fury he had taken
· He told Trout about people he'd heard of in the area who grabbed live copperheads
· He was free at last!
· Here is how Dwayne happened to have stepbrothers, incidentally, even though he
· Here is how the pirates were able to take whatever they wanted from anybody else:
· Here is how Trout happened to be invited: Fred T. Barry wanted to have a fabulously
· Here is the scene between Harry and Dwayne which upset Harry so much:
· Here is what The Man's tombstone on the virgin planet looked like at the end of the
· Here is where Dwayne got the money to buy the agency: He borrowed it from the
· Here was what was going to happen to Wayne in about four days—because I wanted
· Here was why there were so many young foreign doctors on the hospital staff,
· His situation, insofar as he was a machine, was complex, tragic, and laughable. But
· I am better now.
· I am going to make a wild guess now: I think that the end of the Civil War in my
· I can have oodles of charm when I want to.
· I could go on and on with the intimate details about the various lives of people on the
· I do not know who invented the body bag. I do know who invented Kilgore Trout. I did.
· I gazed at the Keedsler mansion, never dreaming that a volcanic dog was about to
· I got out of my rented car. I did it noisily, so his ears would tell him a lot about his
· I had come to the Arts Festival incognito. I was there to watch a confrontation
· I had made him up, of course—and his pilot, too. I put Colonel Looseleaf Harper, the
· I had no respect whatsoever for the creative works of either the painter or the novelist.
· I have to explain, too, see, why so many black people in Midland City were able to
· I landed on my hands and knees in the middle of Fair-child Boulevard.
· I might have told Bunny Hoover's fortune, too: "Your father will become extremely ill,
· I saw Kazak out of the corner of my right eye. His eyes were pinwheels. His teeth
· I somersaulted lazily and pleasantly through the void, which is my hiding place when I
· I tend to think of human beings as huge, rubbery test tubes, too, with chemical
· I think I am trying to clear my head of all the junk in there—the assholes, the flags, the
· I turned my back to the fence, took a deep puff of my cigarette. Pall Malls would kill
· I was really sick for a while, though. I sat there in a cocktail lounge of my own
· I was waiting to intercept him, about six blocks away. I sat in a Plymouth Duster I had
· In 1972, Trout lived in a basement apartment in Cohoes, New York. He made his
· In one of New York City's many ghettos for dark-skinned people, a group of Puerto
· In the newspaper map of Dwayne's rampage, there were three such crosses inside
· It didn't matter much what Dwayne said. It hadn't mattered much for years. It didn't
· It don't seem right, though," the old miner said to Trout, "that a man can own what's
· It intrigued Trout to know that he had only to flick the switch, and the people would
· It may be that the subject of adoption caused an unfortunate chemical reaction in
· It shook up Trout to realize that even he could bring evil into the world—in the form of
· It was a very restless country, with people tearing around all the time. Every so often,
· It was all faked, of course. There weren't any pears anymore. And the eating of a
· It was an amazing coincidence that the truck driver had read a book by Kilgore Trout.
· It was certainly flat out there—flat city, flat township, flat county, flat state. When
· It was determined at a hospital that Trout was not seriously hurt. He was taken to a
· It was still dark when he told Trout he could sit up. They were crossing the poisoned
· It was true about the holdups. That was how Dwayne bought a Pontiac agency so
· It wasn't true, incidentally, that most women did their laundry on Monday at the time
· Karabekian was saying this to Bonnie, indicating Beatrice Keedsler with a wave of his
· Kilgore Trout did not choose to lie down in Martha. He settled into a leather bucket
· Kilgore Trout had to change into his only other garments, his high school tuxedo and
· Kilgore Trout heard him say that—about pure tuna fish. His mind tried to make sense
· Kilgore Trout once wrote a short novel about the importance of the clitoris in lovemaking.
· Kilgore Trout once wrote a short story which was a dialogue between two pieces of
· Kilgore Trout once wrote a story called "This Means You." It was set in the Hawaiian
· Kilgore Trout owned a parakeet named Bill. Like Dwayne Hoover, Trout was all alone
· Kilgore Trout thought about the cries of steam whistles he had known, and about the
· Kilgore Trout was one of the walking wounded. He was able to climb aboard Martha,
· Kilgore Trout wrote a story one time about a town which decided to tell derelicts
· Kilgore Trout, hitchhiking westward, ever westward, had meanwhile become a
· Kilgore Trout, incidentally, could never be President of the United States without a
· Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., is the son and grandson of Indianapolis architects. They were
· Leo left home forever at the age of fourteen. He lied about his age, and he joined the
· Let's see, let's see. Oh, yes—I have to explain a jacket Trout will see at the hospital. It
· Let's see: I have already explained Dwayne's uncharacteristic ability to read so fast.
· Like all Earthlings at the point of death, Mary Young sent faint reminders of herself to
· Listen:
· Listen:
· Listen:
· Listen: Bunny Hoover went to Prairie Military Academy for eight years of uninterrupted
· Listen: Bunny's mother and my mother were different sorts of human beings, but they
· Listen: Francine Pefko was at Dwayne's automobile agency next door. She was
· Listen: Kilgore Trout climbed out of the trough and onto the asphalt desert which was
· Listen: That Doberman's name was Kazak. He patrolled the supply yard of the
· Lyle and Kyle sat side-by-side on the black leather couch in Dwayne Hoover's inner
· Lyle told Dwayne about an experiment he and Kyle had performed the night before.
· Martha began to move. Kilgore Trout saw a sign he liked a lot. Here is what it said:
· Mary Alice Miller, incidentally, the Women's Breast Stroke Champion of the World and
· My psychiatrist is also named Martha. She gathers Jumpy people together into little
· Nobody heard the shots. All the houses in the neighborhood were too well insulated
· Nobody slept in that part of town. Nobody lurked there. It was a system of forts at
· Now that Trout lived in Cohoes, the only person he called by name was a red-headed
· One time Dwayne Hoover got an advertisement through the mail for a penis-extender,
· Only there wasn't any audience or curtain or any of that. And the truth was that Milo
· Patty Keene flunked English during the semester when she had to read and
· Patty Keene had thirty-four-inch hips, a twenty-six-inch waist, and a thirty-four-inch
· Patty Keene was stupid on purpose, which was the case with most women in Midland
· Patty knew who Dwayne was. Dwayne didn't know who Patty was. Patty's heart beat
· People said later that they were furious with themselves for not noticing the danger
· People took such awful chances with chemicals and their bodies because they
· People were glad that the bears were gilgongo, because there were too many species
· Phoebe Hurty hired me to write copy for ads about teen-age clothes. I had to wear the
· Rabo Karabekian asked Bonnie MacMahon to tell him something about the teen-age
· Saint Anthony, incidentally, was an Egyptian who founded the very first monastery,
· Skag hoped to force his country into making laws against excessively large families,
· So Bunny Hoover now got ready to practice his trade. He slipped a black velvet
· So Don was in the ambulance, too, now—sitting up like Kilgore Trout. Francine was
· So Dwayne thought that the Creator of the Universe had invited him to play a game of
· So Dwayne went from the Burger Chef to the construction site of the new high school.
· So Francine got off the bed in order not to share it with the seeming rattlesnake. She
· So I had Beatrice Keedsler say to Rabo Karabekian there at the piano bar, "This is a
· So Kago and his brave little Zeltoldimarian crew, which was all homosexual, roamed
· So Kilgore Trout had a depressing childhood, despite all of the sunshine and fresh air.
· So New Yorkers, who had so many nameless terrors, were easily taught to fear
· So poor Harry spent a wretched Veterans' Day weekend after that. But Dwayne spent
· So this book is a sidewalk strewn with junk, trash which I throw over my shoulders as
· So Trout entered the lobby as an inkless printing press, but he was still the most
· So was Beatrice Keedsler, but she kept her dismay to herself as she sat at the piano
· Sometimes I wonder about the Creator of the Universe.
· Sometimes people would put holes in famous people so they could be at least fairly
· Sugar Creek flooded now and then. Dwayne remembered about that. In a land so flat,
· Sugar Creek was only two inches deep and fifty yards wide at the bend, where little
· The Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse was named in honor of George Hickman
· The bartender in the cocktail lounge now flicked on the ultraviolet lights in the ceiling.
· The black people would not put up with this. They went on talking English every which
· The dairy at the prison provided milk and cream and butter and cheese and ice cream
· The driver got onto the subject of friends. He said it was hard for him to maintain
· The driver knew Trout was bound for Midland City. He didn't know Trout was a writer
· The driver mentioned that the day before had been Veterans' Day.
· The driver pointed out that all the mailboxes in the area had the same last name
· The driver talked about politics some.
· The driver was a big eater. He pulled into a Mao Donald's Hamburger establishment.
· The driver was impressed. "Come to think about it," he said, "I don't think there's
· The driver, who was white, told Trout that he would have to lie on the floor of the cab
· The expression "Breakfast of Champions" is a registered trademark of General Mills,
· The fan letter came much too late. It wasn't good news. It was perceived as an
· The girl with the greyhound was an assistant lighting director for a musical comedy
· The Governor of New York, Nelson Rockefeller, shook Trout's hand in a Cohoes
· The jackets of Plague on Wheels and Now It Can Be Told both promised plenty of
· The largest human penis in the United States was fourteen inches long and two and a
· The letter was from the Festival's chairman, Fred T. Barry. He was respectful, almost
· The Man often sauntered by the sea. Sometimes he waded in his Eve. Sometimes he
· The man who told me how to diagram a segment of a molecule of plastic was
· The Midland City Festival of the Arts was postponed because of madness. Fred T.
· The motto of Dwayne Hoover's and Kilgore Trout's nation was this, which meant in a
· The motto of the old Robo-Magic washing machine cleverly confused two separate
· The mountains of West Virginia, for instance, were heaved up when a huge chunk of
· The movie theater where Trout sat with all his parcels in his lap showed nothing but
· The name of the planet where Trout's book took place was Bagnialto, and a "Barringgaffner"
· The next thing he knew, he was on his hands and knees on a handball court
· The nickname for Bunny's neighborhood was Skid Row. Every American town of any
· The night clerk was new. He did not know Dwayne. He had Dwayne fill out a
· The novel in question, incidentally, was The Smart Bunny. The leading character was
· The only other big animal on the virgin planet was an angel who visited The Man
· The only person who said out loud that Dwayne was going crazy was Dwayne's white
· The person to whom this book is dedicated, Phoebe Hurty, is no longer among the
· The prostitutes worked for a pimp now. He was splendid and cruel. He was a god to
· The reindeer problem was essentially this: Nobody white had much use for black
· The Robo-Magic dream was interrupted by World War Two. The old Keedsler
· The sea pirates were white. The people who were already on the continent when the
· The story about the slaves was as fake as the one about Jesse James. The cave
· The truck driver told Trout about a gas hot-water heater he had bought thirty years
· The two largest monuments in town, until the new Mildred Barry Memorial Arts Center
· The two physicians on the disaster vehicle named Martha were Cyprian Ukwende, of
· The words in the book, incidentally, were about life on a dying planet named LingoThree,
· The young ex-convict smiled yet again at Dwayne. His teeth were in perfect repair.
· The young man went back to burnishing the automobile. His Me was not worth living.
· There in the cocktail lounge, Dwayne Hoover's bad chemicals suddenly decided that
· There in the cocktail lounge, I gave Dwayne Hoover credit for having taken a course
· There in the cocktail lounge, I took a white pill which a doctor said I could take in
· There in the cocktail lounge, peering out through my leaks at a world of my own
· There In the cocktail lounge, the pill and the alcohol gave me a terrific sense of
· There was a book of matches on my table, next to my Pall Mall cigarettes.
· There was a cable with a harness on it dangling from each balloon. With the help of
· There was a map of Dwayne's rampage in the paper the next morning. The dotted
· There was a sign hanging on the inside doorknob, which Dwayne now hung on the
· There were one quadrillion nations in the Universe, but the nation Dwayne Hoover
· They didn't even send him complimentary copies of the books and magazines in
· They rode in silence for a while, and then the driver made another good point. He said
· They stopped at a diner. Here is what the sign in front of the diner said:
· They talked about aluminum siding as a technique for making old houses look new
· This book is made up, of course, but the story I had Bonnie tell actually happened in
· This book is my fiftieth birthday present to myself. I feel as though I am crossing the
· This is a very bad book you're writing," I said to myself behind my leaks.
· This isn't the kind of book where people get what is coming to them at the end.
· Traffic on the westbound barrel of the Interstate had come to a halt a mile east of the
· Trout accepted the invitation after all. Two days before the Festival was to begin, he
· Trout asked about the truck, and the driver said it was the greatest truck hi the world.
· Trout asked himself out loud what the people did for amusement, and the driver told
· Trout asked the happy manufacturer's representative what it felt like to drive a
· Trout did another thing which some people might have considered eccentric: he
· Trout did not expect to be believed. He put the bad ideas into a science-fiction novel,
· Trout dreaded eye contact with either Dwayne or me, so he went through the contents
· Trout got his tuxedo out of the trunk and he put it on. It was a lot like a tuxedo I'd seen
· Trout had a fat manila envelope with him. Milo Maritimo had given it to him. It
· Trout had come down from Cohoes late that afternoon. He had since visited many
· Trout had forgotten the driver's name.
· Trout had no explanation for the fantastic transformation of certain garments around
· Trout looked out at the countryside, which was smeared by high velocity. He saw this
· Trout lowered his artistic feet into the concrete trough containing Sugar Creek. They
· Trout made the connection between his lone fan letter and the invitation, but he
· Trout marveled at how recently white men had arrived in West Virginia, and how
· Trout now crossed Sugar Creek on my father's legs and feet, and those appendages
· Trout received only one fan letter before 1972. It was from an eccentric millionaire,
· Trout said this so innocently, but his comment turned out to be the first germ in an
· Trout sat back and thought about the conversation. He shaped it into a story, which
· Trout saw a broken guardrail ahead. He gazed into a gully below it, saw a 1968
· Trout trudged onward, a stranger in a strange land. His pilgrimage was rewarded with
· Trout was itchingly aware that Dwayne was staring at his bosom so loonily. Dwayne's
· Trout was petrified there on Forty-second Street. I had given him a life not worth
· Trout wrote a novel one time which he called How You Doin'? and it was about
· Trout's employer and co-workers had no idea that he was a writer. No reputable
· Wayne couldn't read very well. The words Hawaii and Hawaiian, for instance,
· Wayne Hoobler heard some of the orders which a waitress called to the bartender in
· Wayne Hoobler smiled now, not because he was happy but because, with so little to
· Wayne Hoobler was watching us through a peephole in the kitchen. There was a tap
· What do I myself think of this particular book? I feel lousy about it, but I always feel
· When Bunny played the piano bar at the Holiday Inn, he had many, many secrets.
· When Don and his friends left the theater, they were accosted by humanoid whores,
· When Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout met each other, their country was by far the
· When Dwayne left Patty Keene and his Burger Chef, when he got into his
· When Dwayne was a boy, when Kilgore Trout was a boy, when I was a boy, and even
· When Robert and Francine were in Midland City, there weren't any other military
· When Trout followed the driver back to the truck, he took his first good look at their
· When Trout headed back for his seat in the theater, he played at being the eyes and
· While Dwayne sat there so alone, the oldest inhabitant of Midland City was dying in
· with drawing by the author
—JOB
—PHILBOYD STUDGE